ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY POLICY STATEMENT Allied Minds aims to conduct its business in a socially responsible manner, to contribute to the communities in which it operates and to respect the needs of its employees and all of its stakeholders.
The Group is committed to growing the business while ensuring a safe environment for employees as well as minimising the overall impact on the environment.
Allied Minds endeavours to conduct its business in accordance with established best practice, to be a responsible employer and to adopt values and standards designed to help guide staff in their conduct and business relationships.
GREENHOUSE GAS GHG EMISSIONS Given the overall size of the Group, we consider the direct environmental impact of the Group as relatively low.
However, we firmly recognise our responsibility to ensure that our business operates in an environmentally responsible and sustainable manner.
The Group complies with all current regulations on emissions including GHG emissions, where such regulation exists in our markets.
Though the Groups day-to-day operational activities have a relatively limited impact on the environment, we do recognise that the more significant impact occurs indirectly through the nature and operations of the companies that we choose to support with human and financial capital.
The Group therefore considers it important to establish and nurture businesses that comply with existing applicable environmental, ethical and social legislation.
It is also important that these businesses can demonstrate that an appropriate strategy is in place to meet future applicable legislative and regulatory requirements and that these businesses can operate to specific industry standards, striving for best practice.
The section below includes our mandatory reporting of GHG emissions.
The reporting period is the same as the Groups financial year.
ORGANISATION BOUNDARY AND SCOPE OF EMISSIONS We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall with the Groups consolidated financial statement.
An operational control approach has been used in order to define our organisational boundary.
This is the basis for determining the Scope 1 and 2 emissions for which the Group is responsible.
METHODOLOGY For the Groups reporting, the Group has employed the services of a specialist adviser, Verco, to quantify and verify the Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions associated with the Groups operations.
The following methodology was applied by Verco in the preparation and presentation of this data: the Greenhouse Gas Protocol published by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute WBCSD WRI GHG Protocol : application of appropriate emission factors to the Groups activities to calculate GHG emissions: implementation of the new scope 2 reporting methods application of location-based and market-based emission factors for electricity supplies: 58 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED inclusion of all the applicable Kyoto gases, expressed in carbon dioxide equivalents, or CO e: and 2 presentation of gross emissions as the Group does not purchase carbon credits or equivalents.
ABSOLUTE EMISSIONS 1 The total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from the Groups operations in the year ending date-month-year were: 939.0 tonnes of CO equivalent tCO e using a location-based emission factor methodology for 2 2 Scope 2 emissions: and 1,013.3 tonnes of CO equivalent tCO e using a market-based emission factor methodology for 2 2 Scope 2 emissions.
INTENSITY RATIO As well as reporting the absolute emissions, the Groups GHG emissions are reported below on the metrics of 2 tonnes per employee and kilograms per square foot of the occupied areas.
These are the most appropriate metrics given that the majority of emissions result from the operation of the Groups offices and the day-to-day activities of the employees.
TARGET AND BASELINES Given the comparatively low GHG impact of the Groups operations, the Groups objective is to maintain or reduce its GHG emissions per employee and per square foot of office space each year and will report each year whether it has been successful in this regard.
1 The apportioned consumption associated with occupied premises which are not sub-metered have been assigned to Scope 2 emissions.
This is because the Group is deemed to have operational control over these emissions, emissions arising from such activities account for 2% of the total carbon emissions.
2 For some of the companies, floor area was not known therefore they are not included in the kg persquare footage of office space intensity metric.
59 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED Key Figures Allied Minds plc - Breakdown of emissions by scope 2016 97.6 841.4 location-based 2016 97.6 841.4 market-based 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Scope 1 Scope 2 2016 GHG EMISSIONS 4 5 TONNES CO E TCO E EMP.
FT. 2 2 2 1 Scope 1 97.6 0.46 0.001 2 Scope 2 841.4 4.01 0.011 3 Scope 2 915.7 4.36 0.012 Total GHG emissions 939.0 4.47 0.012 Location-based Scope 2 Total GHG emissions 1,013.3 4.83 0.013 Market-based Scope 2 1 Scope 1 being emissions from the Groups combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
2 Scope 2 being electricity from location-based calculations, heat, steam and cooling purchased for the Groups own use.
3 Scope 2 being electricity from market-based calculations, heat, steam and cooling purchased for the Groups own use 4 Employee numbers: 209 5 Occupied office space: 66,696 sq.
ft. this does not include sites where floor area was not known UNDERSTANDING THE INDIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES The Groups day-to-day operational activities have a limited impact on the environment.
We do, however, recognise that the more significant impact occurs indirectly, through the investment decisions we make and the operation of the companies we choose to invest in.
The Group therefore considers it important to establish and 60 Tonnes of CO e 2 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED invest in businesses that comply with existing applicable environmental, ethical and social legislation.
OUR BUSINESS ETHICS AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Group seeks to conduct all of its operating and business activities in an honest, ethical and socially responsible manner.
We are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate, and for its directors and staff to have due regard to the interest of all of its stakeholders including investors, university and government partners, employees, suppliers and the businesses in which the Group invests.
We take a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and implement and enforce effective systems to counter bribery.
The Group is bound by the laws of the UK, including the Bribery Act 2010, and has implemented policies and procedures to address such laws, as well as the laws in each jurisdiction where the Group operates, including the US.
The Groups management and employees are fundamental to our success and as a result we are committed to encouraging the ongoing development of our staff with the aim of maximising the Groups overall performance.
Emphasis is placed on staff development through work-based learning, with senior members of staff acting as coaches and mentors.
Allied Minds has continued to employ regular all-staff update meetings as the main source of employee communication.
EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AND EMPLOYMENT POLICIES The Group seeks to operate as a responsible employer and has adopted standards which promote corporate values designed to help and guide employees in their conduct and business relationships.
The Group seeks to comply with all laws, regulations and rules applicable to its business and to conduct the business in line with applicable established best practice.
The Groups policy is one of equal opportunity in the selection, training, career development and promotion of employees, regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion and whether disabled or otherwise.
The Group had 413 employees and consultants as at 31 December 2016 but fewer than 250 full time employees.
A breakdown of employees by gender as at 31 December 2016 can be seen in the illustrations below.
Allied Minds supports the rights of all people as set out in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ensures that all transactions the Group enters into uphold these principles.
Total Employees Senior Management Directors 20% 9% 17% 80% 91% 83% Female Male 61
