People This and changes in our indirectly employed workforce resulted 1 in a total headcount of circa 35,000 people at year end People are our principal asset.
Our business 1 compared with circa 39,000 at the end of 2015. depends upon having a culture that supports Workforce mobility is also key to meeting client expectations successful project delivery for our customers and developing our employees.
Our in-house mobility team and helps us to attract and retain the best talent.
facilitated over 300 cross border moves in 2016.
As part of our commitment to being a sustainable Investing in talent business, we look to achieve the highest standards We aim to build the capability of our people year on year, as ongoing development is vital to both employee engagement of health and safety, mutual respect and ethical and our reputation with our customers.
More information about our approach the learning strategy we deliver through our global Academy.
to sustainability can be found on page 33.
This involved: X giving all our engineers access to high-quality technical Culture and engagement applications training, at no cost to the end-user In a business that is about people, having the right culture is critical.
The transformation programme we are going through will X transitioning to virtual classrooms for delivering technical help us to build a real meritocracy, with a highly engaged culture functional training and leadership skills focused on safety, collaboration, technical excellence, high X developing an interactive e-learning programme for people performance and clear accountability.
management skills, built specifically for our business using Instilling this culture will enable us to deliver excellence to relatable scenarios our customers, safely and consistently, wherever we work.
The Academy continues to offer popular on-line learning in It will ensure that our people know what we expect of them management and leadership skill development, with circa and that their performance will be recognised and rewarded.
10,000 people accessing the site in 2016.
In addition, around We have established a transformation office headed by a Chief 4,000 people took our sustainability e-learning course.
Transformation Officer and a key part of his remit is to ensure we deliver the cultural elements of our transformation programme.
During 2016, we rolled out a mid-year development review for all This includes reinforcing our commitment to adhering to our managers and professional employees, following a successful Code of Business Conduct and complying with policies and pilot in 2015.
The review prompts a conversation between procedures.
During the second half of the year, we employed manager and employee around the individuals longer-term KPMG to benchmark how well our people comply with ethics goals, resulting in agreed development to achieve these.
We also introduced a Company-wide framework that helps Leaders who effectively listen and then act build effective, managers identify potential early in employees careers.
transparent and trusting relationships with employees.
Gathering Through development discussions and diagnostic tools, we can the views of our people was therefore a major part of shaping our then provide employees with the experience and learning they transformation programme.
Nearly 3,000 employees responded need to accelerate their development through the organisation.
in detail to our survey asking for their views of our organisation, In addition to developing our people, we look to attract the next helping us to understand the strengths we need to make more of and the weaknesses we need to overcome.
The results of this generation of talent into the industry.
We therefore engage with schools and universities to stimulate interest in engineering research, and several subsequent surveys, helped us to define our new organisational structure.
Diversity and inclusion We have committed to continuing to listen to employee views and to improving communication, recognising that good Organisations with diverse employees can create better solutions for customers, which contributes to long-term communication is fundamental to driving employee engagement.
The table below shows the gender mix Adapting to market dynamics of our directly employed workforce at the end of the year: The nature of our business means that we need to recruit large numbers of people each year, as we put together teams to 2016 2015 match the needs of projects and customers.
Similarly, many Men Women Men Women people leave us as projects finish or their roles change.
As noted in the business model on pages 6 and 7, a key advantage for us Board 7 2 6 2 is that the breadth of our business often allows us to redeploy Group leadership team 12 2 9 1 people to new contracts, reducing costs and the need to hire Executive grades 338 48 369 41 and release people, and helping us to keep skills and knowledge Total workforce 24,327 7,099 27,610 8,247 within the business.
In 2016 we recruited some 8,500 people to our direct We assess age, gender and ethnic diversity and use employee workforce, of which 89% were recruited directly by our surveys to understand harder to measure aspects, such as resourcing teams, who deliver excellent candidates to our diversity of thought.
We also work with groups such as the business wherever they are needed.
Around 9,600 people left Womens Engineering Society and Stonewall, to build greater the business.
This is part of the normal cycle of recruitment and awareness of our company and attract a more diverse workforce.
It also includes people who 1 Figure includes non-employed workers.
left the business as a result of the transformation programme.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 25 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review Connected excellence through sophisticated technology Customers have been keen to trial and adopt the technology on their projects: for example, as part of hook-up and commissioning work for a North Sea Floating, Production, Storage and Offloading unit built on the other side of the world.
26 26 We are using smart headsets, ATEX rated for offshore use, to enable real time interaction with the home office, improving efficiency and speed.
One of the greatest benefits is the enabling of unambiguous and safe communication, reducing the possibility of unclear instructions or muffled radio use: these headsets can ensure that clear and concise information is provided to the relevant parties.
27 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review
