Sustainability Growth in demand drives the competition for skills and expertise within the industry that we need to deliver a resilient Working towards our vision world.
We will resource for a diverse and inclusive workforce of a Resilient World.
introducing new people both experienced and new entrants to the resource pools in order to create a business with genuine diversity of thought.
Innovation Delivering innovative technologies, solutions and services that add business value for our customers whilst minimising Greenhouse gas emissions environmental impacts.
We will drive long-term growth for Amec Foster Wheeler by 2016 2015 CO2e CO2e developing and encouraging a growing portfolio of innovative emissions emissions Year ended 30 September in tonnes in tonnes environmental technologies, solutions and services which add value to our customers and our business.
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 1,148,118 838,073 Delivery Being a trusted partner by embedding a consistent Electricity, heat, steam and cooling sustainability standard across our projects.
purchased for own use 49,799 59,682 Per employee 33.94 22.83 Our customers demand high standards, and sustainability is a fundamental part of this.
We will ensure a consistent approach to Per 1m revenue 220.21 164.57 inherently embedding sustainability into the core of our projects, and implement a value-add sustainability framework to be used The figures show scope one and two emissions from our global for those clients with advanced sustainability objectives.
business where we have operational control.
We want to ensure that sustainability is integrated into the very The 12-month period to 30 September the carbon reporting core of our business and within our decision-making processes.
year, rather than the calendar year, has been used.
This We want to be acknowledged as a leader in sustainable ensures actual data can be reported, even for those regions business practice, continually validating our social licence where energy fuel usage is more difficult to access.
By reducing to operate by ensuring employees behaviours and actions are reliance on estimation, a more accurate footprint can be in line with our values.
Further details on our approach and our provided in a timely manner.
strategy can be found on our dedicated sustainability site at We have used accepted methods of calculation based on www.
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Additionally we: Reporting Standard revised edition.
We have used national conversion factor guidelines e. g. Environmental Protection X developed and launched our Resilient World Agency, Environment Canada, DEFRA where appropriate.
sustainability strategy Note: the 2015 data reported incorporates three quarters of X continue to report our approach to sustainability, our a year of data for the legacy Foster Wheeler business as the sustainability performance and our services via an interactive acquisition was not complete until part way through the 2015 sustainability report on our dedicated sustainability website carbon reporting year.
com sustainability the combustion of fuel and operation of facilities in 2016 relate X continue to commit to and embed within our business directly to emissions from two power generation facilities.
practices the ten UN Global Compact Principles around Our approach to sustainable business human and labour rights, environment and anti-bribery Our growth aspirations will only be achieved by focusing and corruption on our customers and how we deliver our projects safely X published our first Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking and sustainably.
statement in response to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 Our sustainability strategy was launched in 2015 and sets X undertook a review of our carbon reduction and management out the companys vision for a Resilient World, where natural strategy using science based target methodology resources are cleaner and more efficient, and we work in partnership with others to respond to changing demands for X continue to support SOS Children as our global a stable and secure supply of natural resources.
Our strategy strategic charity centres on the opportunities to work with others to help solve X donated 368,000 to charities globally as part of our these challenges, as well as manage our risks, to deliver value community investment programme to Amec Foster Wheeler and its customers.
Our strategy focuses on three key areas: X continue to build on our partnership with 100 Resilient Cities 100RC pioneered by the Rockefeller Foundation to give People urban centres across the world access to ground-breaking Investing for tomorrow by developing a diverse, inclusive and tools allowing them to better plan for potentially destructive talented workforce which exhibits our values and behaviours weather events to drive sustainability.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 33 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review
