Accountability continued Health, safety, security, environmental and ethics HSSEE committee Members The HSSEE committee comprises only independent The HSSEE committee assists the board non-executive directors.
The quorum for the committee is in upholding the Companys principal value two members.
In 2016 there were three scheduled committee of doing the right thing.
The committee reviews meetings held, and no unscheduled meetings.
the HSSE policy statement and satisfies itself The Company Chairman, the executive directors, the Chief that all significant HSSE and ethics risks are General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Head of Ethics & Compliance and the Chief HSSE Officer also attend each identified and controlled.
The membership of the committee is detailed below.
Dear shareholder This was the HSSEE committees second year of operation.
Membership and attendance of the HSSEE committee The committee provides an additional level of governance during 2016 in respect of Amec Foster Wheelers health, safety, security, Meeting attendance environmental and ethics activities, reflecting their fundamental importance to the way the business operates.
Linda Adamany Chairman 3 3 The Company has embarked on a significant programme of Neil Carson 2 3 transformation but some things will not change.
The first is our Stephanie Newby 3 3 absolute commitment to protecting the health, safety and well being of our people.
They have the right to work in a safe and Kent Masters 3 3 secure environment, and we remain focused on our Beyond Zero initiative, which aims to deliver first-class protection Bob Card joined the committee on 1 March 2017. from harm for our people, our assets, our environment Key responsibilities of the HSSEE committee and our customers.
The committee reviews Amec Foster Wheelers HSSE policy The new operating model will help us to achieve our HSSE at least annually to ensure it remains fit for purpose and goals.
Business functions, including HSSE, now have a meets legal and regulatory requirements in all respects.
direct reporting line into the same functions at Company It also examines the processes in place to satisfy itself that level.
This will drive standardisation and common policies all significant health, safety, security and environmental risks and procedures across the organisation, and ensure they are identified and mitigated.
are embraced everywhere we work.
The committee oversees the operations and activities of the Our insistence on the highest standards of business ethics HSSE review committee which is a management committee, is also unchanged and we have zero tolerance for violations details of which are outlined on page 63. of our Code of Business Conduct.
The Company has a strong The committee reviews and monitors business ethics within the framework to ensure that our employees, and those who work Group, including compliance with relevant legislation, regulation with and for us, act with integrity wherever they are based.
It also reviews and approves the Our employees can use a third-party reporting system to report Groups Code of Business Conduct at least annually.
any concerns in complete confidence.
All calls are investigated and actions taken where appropriate.
It considers and reviews the scope and planning of all ethical compliance activity within the Group and reviews the extent This coming year will see us focus on becoming a zero and effectiveness of the Groups internal training and external incidents organisation, in line with our Beyond Zero ambition reporting of compliance and ethics matters.
and embedding the HSSE function through the new organisational structure.
In the event of an actual or suspected material breach of the Code of Business Conduct or any other serious matter, a member of the committee will normally take responsibility for and manage any investigation into the relevant matter with the support of the Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Linda Adamany Chairman of the Health, Safety, Security, Environmental and Ethics Committee 25 April 2017 Amec Foster Wheeler 70 Annual report and accounts 2016 Activities of the HSSEE committee The committee reviewed the revised Amec Foster Wheeler Code of Business Conduct in August 2016 and endorsed its content.
This document has also been translated into Russian and is now available in 14 different languages.
During the year all concerns raised in Amec Foster Wheeler in respect of alleged or suspected ethical breaches, most of which were reported through the independent third-party reporting systems were taken seriously and investigated.
The outcome of these investigations resulted in disciplinary action where appropriate as well as enhancements to the existing control environment where necessary.
A new Head of Ethics & Compliance joined the Company in 2016 and presented his 12 month strategy to the committee, which included a review and consolidation of the current mandatory processes, a review of the onboarding process for new employees and a review and refresh of the ethics and compliance training materials.
The Global Head of HSSE left the business in 2016 and therefore a search for a replacement began.
The Occupational Health and Environmental Manager covered the role on an interim basis until the new Chief HSSE Officer joined the Company from an equivalent position at Weatherford International plc at the end of February 2017.
Areas of focus during the year included risk mitigation and high potential incidents, particularly those that occurred within joint ventures.
The committee was pleased to note the deep dive reviews that were undertaken in respect of each incident and that the outcomes and lessons learned were taken on board throughout the business.
As part of the internally conducted board and committee effectiveness review undertaken in 2016, respondents were asked about the performance of the HSSEE committee.
The committees oversight of business HSSE and ethics within the Company, including compliance with relevant regulations and best practice was rated highly.
The importance of setting priorities with management with respect to HSSE matters was noted.
The committee also reviewed its terms of reference in December 2016 and recommended to the board that the terms of reference remained fit for purpose and continued to meet the Groups requirements.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 71 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
