GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE February Jack Thompson business unit sustainability report: Iron Ore Brazil Chairman, Sustainability Committee tailings storage facilities and water retaining dams stewardship and crisis management permitting compliance mitigating risks.
June providing a safe and healthy work environment employee exposure to dust COMPOSITION geo-political developments, with a particular focus on Brazil and South Africa Jack Thompson Chairman Mark Cutifani International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM Tony ONeill benchmarking report comparing safety performance Ray ORourke resigned 25 July 2016 and trends across the industry Sir John Parker key legislative developments in the sustainability area.
Mphu Ramatlapeng Jim Rutherford July tailings dams contractor management and governance ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES business unit sustainability reports: Kumba Iron Ore and Coal The Committee oversees, on behalf of the Board, material management policies, processes, and strategies designed Social Way assessment results an update on the Groups to manage safety, health, environment, socio-political and performance on managing the social impacts of mining people risks, to achieve compliance with sustainable safety and sustainable development benchmarking development responsibilities and commitments and comparing performance and global trends across strive for an industry leadership position on sustainability.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the causes October of any fatal or significant sustainability incidents and business unit sustainability report: Base Metals ensuring learnings are shared across the Group.
safety and sustainable development performance The Committees terms of reference are available to implementation of the integrated operating model view online.
For more information, visit water strategies for managing water usage.
com aboutus ourapproach COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2016 The Committee met four times in 2016.
At each meeting, the Committee reviews a detailed quarterly report covering the Groups performance across arange of sustainability areas including: safety: occupational health: political and regulatory risk: and environmental and social performance.
Significant social, safety, health and environmental incidents are reviewed at each meeting, as are the results from operational risk reviews.
In 2016, 11 members of the workforce lost their lives at Group operations.
Preliminary observations from each of these fatal incidents were reported to the next Committee meeting following their occurrence, noting the factors surrounding the incidents, mitigating steps being taken and the process for formal investigation.
Following completion of independent investigations, findings are presented to the Committee.
In addition to the Committees standing agenda items, the following matters were discussed during 2016: 78 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016
