Corporate Social Responsibility Last year we defined our core values, this year weve been busy living them.
We are relentless Genuine people make We deliver what others cant.
the difference We dont give up and do You cant pay people whatever it takes.
Driven Caring Smart Bold We have the courage to try We find the We think in an Fun best way unconstrained way We are smart through to go beyond understanding conventional limits.
If you enjoy what you do, you do it better Work is serious and we do it with a smile on our face.
Theyre what make us exceptional in the moments that matter.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 26 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information People are our business... As weve continued on our journey this year, never has living and breathing our values been more important.
And as we expand and broaden our horizons, embedding our unique culture across three different territories has been a key focus.
At AO weve always maintained that happy staff equal happy customers.
Driven Underpinning our culture is the belief that you cant pay people to care Adrian Hassan Our Employee Of The Year and you cant tell people to have fun with customers: theyve got to want to.
Recruiting, engaging and retaining staff with the right AO DNA Adrian has been with AO since 2010.
Hes now one of is of the utmost importance to us and this year weve put our unique environment and culture to the test in the UK, Germany and the our Regional Outbase Managers, responsible for 105 employees and 240 self-employed drivers throughout Netherlands, by striving to be exceptional in the moments that matter.
Potters Bar, Basildon and Croydon.
He was voted our Employee Of The Year because of his incredible Simply put, we care more, about our people, our customers and our partners, something that easily translates across territories.
commitment to the business and his colleagues.
His team find it difficult to describe just how hard he works, but Its what truly sets us apart and allows us to articulate what it really means to have the AO DNA.
We continue to do whats best for our love the fact that hes always on hand, day or night, to offer help and support, even when at home.
He devotes his life employees, supporting them through good and bad, and providing an environment in which they can really flourish.
We celebrate together to the business and represents all of the values.
when things go right and rally round each other if things dont go quite to plan.
Above all, we work together as a team.
Caring The AO Cycle Challenge for Derian House Were proud to say that our employees put the customer at the heart of everything we do and, as a result, our review scores speak for themselves.
Not only that, we were named joint Best Online Shop by Which?
and placed in the Nunwood Customer Experience Top Ten.
No two kids are the same, but they all love to play.
Thats why 20 AO employees set out to raise an incredible amount of money for an incredible cause: a state-of-the-art playground for children living with disabilities.
Our team of cyclists travelled roughly 600 miles from our German office in Heppendorf all the way to our Bolton-based HQ.
Together we raised a whopping 70,000 to create a unique environment where life-threatened children can finally share playtime.
The journey was tough, but definitely worth it for our cyclists when they were able to declare Derian Houses Smile Park open for the very first time.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Employee empowerment Equal opportunities Empowering our people is as important as ever.
After all, happy AO is also committed to an equal opportunities policy.
We aim to ensure employees are more engaged, deliver better service and require less that no employee is discriminated against, directly or indirectly, on the management.
We give our employees autonomy, where appropriate grounds of colour, race, ethnic or national origins, sexual orientation and support where needed, and it works.
With staff empowered and or gender, marital status, disability, religion or belief, being part time or trusted to do whats right and fair, weve seen more customers than on the grounds of age or frankly anything else and recruit on this basis.
ever returning to AO to shop.
See pages 47 and 51 Diversity for further details.
After last years launch of our Group intranet, The Fridge, we have Disabled persons have equal opportunities when applying for a strong platform that allows people to connect with each other and positions at AO and we ensure they are treated fairly.
Procedures are share ideas, best practice and latest news through status updates, in place to ensure that disabled employees are also treated fairly in comments, likes, shares and groups.
Weve also introduced a number respect of career development.
Should an employee become disabled of other features such as Success Story of the Week, and Johns own during their course of employment with the Group, we would seek blog, which are really popular ways to share some of the great work whenever practical, to ensure they could remain as part of our team.
being done throughout the business, to help motivate staff and ensure In the opinion of the Directors, our equal opportunities policies are staff understand our vision and strategy.
Writing my blog is a great way of staying in touch with all the people across the Group.
JOHNS BLOG Fun Carl Belshaw The German Integration Trying to take the values and culture of a business and integrate it overseas is no easy task.
When we launched in Germany, one of our biggest tasks was replicating the AO spirit in an entirely new territory.
Luckily we had Carl to take that spirit over there with him and showcase it in true AO style.
Our German colleagues say hes one of the funniest guys theyve ever met and that nothing is too much trouble.
He has a great sense of humour that puts everyone at ease and encourages them to really enjoy what they do.
Hes incredibly hard working, yet shows everyone around him the true meaning of the fun value.
We also have our monthly state of the nation, which updates our colleagues on business activities as well the social side of life across the Group, which is live streamed to all our locations.
At each session we present awards based on our values to recognise those going above and beyond in terms of both work and culture.
Once again, well be carrying out our employee survey, which provides an invaluable insight and allows us to be constantly improving as an employer.
In January this year we launched our third save-as-youearn scheme which was open to all employees who had passed their probationary period.
Once again the take-up was strong with almost 20% of eligible employees participating in the option scheme.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 28 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Investing for the future Still a huge challenge facing UK businesses is the predicted shortage in digital skills, with the UK needing a minimum of 745,000 digitally skilled workers by 2017, over 169,000 of these being young people.
With this in mind we continue to initiate programmes specifically designed to build and nurture a future AO talent pool.
This investment in the next generation allows us to fill any skills gaps and strengthen Bold our culture from within.
Chloe Burgon Duke of Edinburghs Gold Award As part of our programme to develop the next generation of leaders, The Duke of Edinburghs Gold Award is a huge achievement we enrol our younger colleagues on the Duke of Edinburgh DofE scheme.
The programme is focused on instilling the values and and something we encourage all our younger colleagues to take part in.
Its a real test of strength, both mentally behaviours that make AO what it is and what it will be in the future.
It enables employees to develop their own skills while also enabling and physically, and sometimes we see people go above and beyond.
With amazing spirit and determination, them to give back to the local community.
Nine people achieved their DofE Golden Business Award during the reporting period, and 18 Chloe earned her award despite a serious, long-standing back problem.
Knowing what shed be up against, just the others continue to progress on the scheme.
decision to commit to the challenge was hard enough.
She underwent tough physical training to allow her to take We also have our apprentices working in a number of departments throughout the business, such as: IT, design, digital, PR, social media, part and she never gave up, completing a gruelling final expedition and taking away a Giving Something Back and eCommerce.
To date we have taken on 21 apprentices in the UK, with 16 of these joining the Company in the last year.
We continue to award at the DofE presentation evening.
build on this foundation with a number of other apprenticeship positions currently being filled in new departments ranging from our Spa Health and Beauty Apprentice to Digital Marketing Apprentices and with roles opening up in our Strategy, Business Analyst and Project Management departments.
Were even supporting the programme by recruiting an apprentice for our Training and Development team.
We were proud to be named Top 100 Apprenticeship Employer by the National Apprenticeship Service in January 2016.
Our Star programme is set to roll out across the business for those who show potential, to nurture and develop their ability for future roles.
We also have our Future programme, designed to help our frontline managers become the next leaders.
Matt Woodcock and Chris Havard pick up the award for AO.
com at the North West National Apprenticeship Awards 2015.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29 Corporate Social Responsibility continued We have expanded our health and safety team in line with the growth Community engagement AO actively encourages all employees to support and give back to in our business.
Our established safety practices and ways of working are being replicated across our new territories and a quarterly their local community and the AO Smile Foundation continues to facilitate this.
Fifty-two per cent of our UK employees make a regular formal inspection schedule has been implemented at all sites across all our operations.
monthly gift to the charity, and during the year over 75,000 was raised through payroll giving, which makes the process of giving as Our health and safety policies and procedures include: easy, flexible and tax efficient as possible.
The Foundation holds a Gold Award from the Institute of Fundraising, and the Group supports Regular internal audits on our health and safety performance by an independent expert.
The audit reviews legal compliance, best the charity by providing, free of charge, a charity manager and other services such as financial, payroll and legal support.
practice and maintaining a safe environment.
Managing risk and promoting health and safety culture in the This year, the Group has supported AO Smile with a number of Boards agenda.
Seeking accreditation and aligning long-standing Company community projects, including a DIY SOS challenge that saw our employees volunteer to help transform the home of a local family programmes and procedures to internationally recognised Quality Assurance standards.
We also encourage colleagues to have a positive impact within their local communities and give each employee two make Appropriate training and education of all staff to adhere to legal compliance and best practice.
a difference days per year to work with a charity.
Proactively creating a safe environment to significantly reduce occupational injuries or illnesses.
Once again, our call centre was chosen to be an official call centre for Sport Relief fundraising.
123 of our people gave up their Friday night to man the phones and we helped raise a whopping 35,000 for the charity.
Smart Colin Steele Our Hack Manchester Winner Along with three of his colleagues, our User Interface Manager, Colin Steele took part in the annual 24-hour coding competition at The Museum of Science and Industry, walking away with a top prize from LADbible.
The challenge was to design a programme that would help people become more involved in their local community.
They worked for 24 hours straight to design, create and code a fully functioning app.
Their winning programme, Community Hero, would give community members everything they needed to start volunteering.
As well as including fundraising resources, the map interface gave users an overview of what projects where going on around them.
From small scale missions to larger projects, the app Keeping people safe We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of health was designed to turn anyone into a community superhero.
and safety practices for our employees, drivers, customers, visitors, contractors and anyone affected by our business activities.
During the year we continued to invest in staff training and education to promote a culture where our employees take individual responsibility for reducing the risk to both them and their colleagues though improved reporting of incidents and near-misses.
We also made a number of significant operational improvements at our UK National Distribution Centre including the introduction of a new traffic management system, a segregated fide-brief area for drivers and upgraded lighting.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 30 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Environment Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement We are mindful of the effects of our business on our environment.
As AO is listed on the London Stock Exchange we are required to We are committed to meeting or exceeding legislative requirements measure and report our direct and indirect greenhouse gas GHG across the board, in particular with regard to packaging and waste emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report electrical and electronic equipment WEEE waste in the territories and Directors Report Regulations 2013. in which we operate.
The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based on the To ensure minimum environmental impact all handling processes Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard and emissions reported are developed to fully utilise supplier packaging with less than 0.5% correspond with our financial year.
This year we have reported on additional packaging added from receipt into our warehouses to delivery all material emissions from both our owned and leased assets for which to our consumers.
During the year we introduced an unpack and recycle we are responsible across the UK, Germany and the Netherlands from service and have been particularly pleased with the level of take up.
commencement of trading to 31 March 2016.
Last years comparable The majority of packaging collected during delivery to the consumer figures have therefore been restated as appropriate.
Emission factors is recycled with more than 1,300 tonnes of card and plastic including used are from UK Government Defra conversion factor guidance Expanded Polystyrene recycled in 2015 across all our operations.
current for the year reported.
We offer a collection and recycling service to our customers for Our emissions predominately arise from the fuel used in the vehicles their old appliances for a small charge or, alternatively, we accept we use to deliver orders to customers and from gas combustion and any WEEE Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment free of electricity used at our offices, national delivery centres and outbases.
charge which is delivered directly to our warehouse.
Old appliances are mostly broken down into recyclable parts.
A proportion are In order to express our annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable refurbished and put back into the market: re-use is, after all, the factor associated with our activities, we have used revenue as our ultimate in recycling.
Last year over 25,000 tonnes of WEEE intensity ratio as this is a relevant indication of our growth and is was processed.
aligned with our business strategy.
In November 2015 we acquired a majority equity stake in The Greenhouse Gas Emissions data Recycling Group Ltd, our product recycling partner.
This investment Tonnes of CO e secures a WEEE processing facility for the Group and gives us control 2 in ensuring that waste is dealt with responsibly.
Year ending 31 March 2016 2015 Emissions from operations and combustion Energy efficient operations of fuel Scope 1 24,408 20,192 We aim to run our operations with a strong focus on environmental Emissions from energy usage Scope 2 2,735 3,245 impact, fuel management and operational efficiency and constantly seek at both a corporate and local level to help improve our Total 27,143 23,437 performance in all areas.
Intensity ratio: tonnes of CO e per m of revenue 45.25 49.16 2 In order to drive energy efficiencies: We have added 3.5 tonne Hi-Cube trucks to our home delivery Scope 1 comprises vehicle emissions in relation to the delivery of orders fleet these trucks are lighter and have a greater space and weight capacity: to customers and operational visits and combustion of fuel gas.
We have opened two new outbases in the UK and one in Germany during the year to service demand and improve the efficiency Scope 2 comprises our energy consumption in buildings electricity, heat, steam and cooling.
of our fleet: and We also try to maximise our fuel efficiency by, for example, CO e conversion factor in respect of the Groups German and Netherlands 2 employing double-decker trunking so that we can deliver more operations unavailable therefore CO was used.
2 products in one go to our outbases.
Steve Caunce Chief Operating Officer AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31
