SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THE GROUPS APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY For Antofagasta, sustainable mining means prioritising employees safety and health and taking responsibility for environmental stewardship while engaging transparently with stakeholders.
Sustainable operation is an ongoing process in the face of increasingly demanding challenges.
The Group is committed to the continuous improvement of its social and environmental practices and its Board is responsible for ensuring that sustainability is embedded in all decision-making throughout the mining cycle.
This approach is closely aligned with its corporate values and the International Council onMining and Metals ICMM Principles.
In this section 2016 CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES The Groups sustainability priorities are determined both by business risks and by the key concerns and expectations of its stakeholders.
In 2016, the Group focused on: Striving to achieve zero fatalities while continuing to improve safety and SAFETY AND 1 health performance.
Regrettably, two employees lost their lives in fatal HEALTH P53 accidents.
Addressing long-running claims by the Caimanes community.
Following 2 an agreement reached with the community in April, the two outstanding court cases were substantively resolved in favour of Los Pelambres in November 2016.
Delivering on commitments made to communities as part of the Somos 3 Choapa engagement process and extending its principles and methodology to other districts.
EMPLOYEES P54 4 Pioneering the involvement of the Caimanes community in creating an emergency preparedness plan for the El Mauro dam.
5 Progressing strategies to address climate change and biodiversity.
6 Integrating Zaldvar into the Groups culture.
7 Strengthening corporate compliance procedures and increasing internal awareness.
COMMUNITY RELATIONS P54 TRANSPARENT REPORTING ON PROGRESS This section of the Annual Report summarises the Groups sustainability performance.
More detailed information is provided in the annual Sustainability Report, prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 reportingstandards and the ICMMs requirements, available at www.
Antofagasta answers the Carbon Disclosure Projects CDP carbon and ENVIRONMENTAL water questionnaires and is a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index series, the STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index and the ECPI Global Developed ESG STEWARDSHIP P56 Best in Class Index.
The mining division is a member of Chile Transparente, the local chapter of Transparency International.
Los Pelambres, Centinela and Zaldvar have ISO 9001 certifications.
Los Pelambres and Zaldvar also have ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications.
Further information on the Board and its Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee can be found on pages 92 to 93.
52 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SAFETY AND HEALTH The Group is fully committed to achieving zero fatalities and to reducing the frequency and severity of accidents.
Its safety and health strategy is risk based, in line with international best practices.
Unfortunately, despite all efforts, two employees died in fatal accidents during the year, one at Antucoya and the other in the transport division.
Though new standards, processes and tools are in place and the leadership is fully committed to safety, there is still more to be done to make each and every employee safe at work.
SAFETY IS A JOURNEY Over the past three years the Group has implemented a corporate framework to increase employee and contractor safety at all of its FOCUS ON CONTRACTORS EMPLOYEES operations.
The first step was to define new standards and procedures.
Contractor employees are a particularly important part of the Groups safety Next came raising awareness through intensive training, senior leadership and health programme, as they represent some 70% of Antofagastas on the ground and communications support.
The biggest challenge today is total workforce.
In 2016 the focus was on accelerating the adoption of the embedding this model with employees and contractors: as with all cultural corporate safety framework by contractors via the Corporate Security and change, this will take time.
Health Regulations for Contractors and Subcontractors RECSS, training, data analysis and on-site audits.
ADDRESSING KEY RISKS The Group requires contractors to comply with its safety and health Analysis of past accidents identified 15 types of risks that caused all of procedures, providing them with technical support and training and closely the fatalities.
In 2016 the tools and processes for on-site verification of monitoring their safety performance, which is reported together with that key safety controls were simplified on the basis of past experience, which ofthe Groups own employees.
showed that simpler procedures were more effective than complex ones.
There are six causes of all major health risks.
The Group has concentrated PERFORMANCE IN 2016 on these risks by defining specific controls for each one.
The Group has continued to reduce the severity and frequency of accidents, but has yet to eliminate fatalities altogether: in 2016 one worker died at In 2016 SAFEmap, a renowned international consultant, was hired to Antucoya and another employee was involved in a fatal accident at the review the mining divisions safety strategy and identify gaps.
This review Groups transport division.
The Group is committed to improving compliance included a safety culture survey answered by 3,500 employees.
The with the safety standards and timely management of early warning resulting recommendations and the plans to address them were reviewed indicators.
Compliance with the Safety model is audited twice a year by the Board.
AWARENESS AND REPORTING LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE LTIFR Safety reviews are conducted by the Executive Committee at every 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 operation and the Committee uses its monthly visits to verify that the key Chilean mining industry 1.8 2.0 2.5 2.6 2.9 controls for critical safety risks are being correctly applied at each site.
Italso oversees the investigation of high-potential risk events and publicly Mining division 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.1 1.3 recognises employees for outstanding safe conduct.
In 2016 the Groups Transport division 4.9 10.9 10.3 10.3 13.0 Executive Committee conducted seven on-site safety verifications.
Group 1.5 2.0 1.7 1.9 2.5 Safety performance is reported weekly to the Executive Committee and monthly to the Board.
The Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee reviews fatal and serious accidents in detail.
ALL INJURY FREQUENCY RATE AIFR 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Raising awareness and persuading all employees to fully commit to their own and their colleagues safety remains a cultural challenge.
Intensive Chilean mining industry N A N A N A N A N A on-site supervision and training, near-miss reporting, wide dissemination Mining division 6.9 6.9 5.0 3.9 5.4 ofinformation on the causes of severe accidents, site management meetings Transport division 13.3 17.8 22.2 17.7 28.6 focused on safety, and public recognition of committed employees are among the many ways in which the Groups safety practices are introduced Group 7.3 7.9 6.1 5.1 7.8 and reinforced.
All new employees must complete a safety and health induction course NUMBER OF FATALITIES and all existing employees and contractors regularly receive refresher 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 training.
There are also regular refresher workshops on safety policies Chilean mining industry 18 16 27 25 25 and procedures, which consider best practices and lessons learnt from near-miss incidents.
Mining division 1 15 2 1 Transport division 1 Group 2 15 2 1 ANTOFAGASTA.
CO. UK 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED INCREASING GENDER DIVERSITY EMPLOYEES In 2016 women represented 9% of the mining divisions workforce, of whom 60% were supervisors or above and 10% held senior management roles.
There are two female Board Directors and one Vice President.
CONTRACTORS KEY PARTNERS SECURING KEY TALENT TO SUPPORT THE The Group aims to form stable, long-term relationships with key contractorswho share its values and good practices.
Contractors constitute BUSINESS over 70% of the mining divisions workforce, so keeping them aligned with Antofagasta believes that committed employees are key to the operation the Groups safety, ethical and operating standards is key to the Groups of asuccessful organisation, particularly in a challenging business success and reputation.
Contractor companies are audited monthly to environment.
The aim of its Human Resources model is to ensure ensure their compliance with Chilean labour legislation and with the Groups  capability to achieve its strategy.
standards, which require contractors to offer their employees life insurance In 2016, the Groups average total workforce was 18,600 people, of and a minimum salary well above the countrys minimum wage, among whichalmost 5,500 were employees and 13,100 contractors, compared other benefits.
with an average workforce of 19,200 in 2015.
During the year a corporate reorganisation, implemented as part of the Cost and Competitiveness Programme, led to a reduction in the number of employees, mostly in ZALDVARS SUCCESSFUL supervisory positions at the operations.
INCORPORATION INTO THE LABOUR RELATIONS ANTOFAGASTA GROUP The Group recognises employees rights to union membership and collective Human Resources had an important role in easing Zaldvars bargaining, with 68% of its employees holding union membership at its employees into the Groups structure and culture.
Special efforts were mining operations.
There are ten unions across the Group: Centinela has made to share corporate values and communicate Antofagastas Code four, including a supervisors union created in 2016, Los Pelambres has of Ethics.
The Groups performance management system was also three, Zaldvar has two, and Antucoya one.
implemented and Zaldvar employees have also been incorporated into the internal recruitment and mobility programme.
Labour agreements cover matters such as salaries, shift patterns and employment benefits and these are generally renegotiated with the unions every three years in accordance with Chilean legislation.
In 2016, labour agreements were negotiated at Los Pelambres, Antucoya and Zaldvar for the period through 2019.
COMMUNITY RELATIONS Among other provisions, Chilean law prescribes the maximum number of working hours and forbids child and forced labour.
The Groups excellent labour relations are based on the provision of good working conditions, mutual trust and ongoing dialogue, which have resulted Sustainable management of the Groups mining operations includes the in fair labour agreements and the avoidance of strikes.
prevention and mitigation of negative impact on neighbouring communities from the project stage until closure.
The Group takes into account VALUE OFFER FOR EMPLOYEES community expectations and adopts an approach consistent with its The Groups mining division is the largest privately held mining group in corporate values, human rights and the ICMM Principles.
It seeks to attract and retain talented and committed employees by offering opportunities to become part of a growing company with strong SOMOS CHOAPA: ENGAGEMENT AND INVESTMENT corporate values.
The Group is not only committed to the development of Antofagasta is a long-term neighbour, keen to understand local challenges, its employees but to the development of the country, by setting examples and contributes to help solve these in conjunction with the community, in innovation, safety and excellence.
It offers employees a safe work the government and other relevant stakeholders.
The Group has been environment, quality accommodation, a fair salary and a good work life innovative in its approach to resolving community issues at Los Pelambres, balance, along with opportunities to further develop their talents.
where it developed a new engagement process called Somos Choapa.
This addressed both community engagement and investment under the MANAGING TALENT AND SUCCESSION same five principles: dialogue, collaboration, traceability, excellence and The mining division has a talent management system designed to hire and transparency.
Somos Choapa is being developed into a platform for ongoing retain talented, committed people who take responsibility for their personal communication between the mining company, communities, the government safety and development in order to support business growth.
The Group, and other stakeholders on local development and other issues of common in turn, supports each employee within their present position, as well as interest.
It encourages neighbours to take an active role in the decisions provides opportunities for horizontal and vertical development via training affecting their communities and is intended to become an integrated and internal mobility.
New positions are initially advertised internally roadmap for public-private investment.
Having successfully developed this and there is a succession plan in place for key positions.
Employees in approach at Los Pelambres, the Group now plans to expand it to the rest supervisory and managerial positions are offered periodic training to ofits mining operations.
Through Somos Choapa, neighbours voice expectations and concerns During 2016 the Group invested $1.5 million dollars in training, providing regarding community development and the projects designed to advance it.
anaverage of 2.5 hours of training per employee a month.
Los Pelambres funds an independent firm to design these projects, aided by technical input from the municipalities.
This co-ordinated approach produces a better outcome based on a combination of public and private funds.
54 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUSTAINABILITY In 2016 Los Pelambres, in partnership with a local educational provider, endorsed the development of the Choapas first technical training centre to be located in Los Vilos.
This centre will give young people who live in the area the opportunity to train in technical careers without the need to migrate away from their homes.
It will be the first establishment of its kind in the province of Choapa.
SOMOS CHOAPA COMMUNITY MODEL IDENTIFY CONTROVERSIES, IDENTIFY A PORTFOLIO CHALLENGES AND BUILD A SHARED VISION OF PROJECTS AND OPPORTUNITIES WITH THE OF SUSTAINABLE LOCAL PROGRAMMES TO COMMUNITIES AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT CAIMANES FROM CONFLICT TO COLLABORATION ACHIEVE THIS VISION PUBLIC AND PRIVATE Since Los Pelambres began building the El Mauro tailings dam, some STAKEHOLDERS 13km from Caimanes, it has faced over a decade of local protests involving 123 lawsuits, roadblocks and demonstrations.
However, in May 2016, after nine months of talks, an agreement between the mine and the community was formally approved by 83% of the community and the pending court cases were finally resolved.
SOCIAL RISKS AND IMPACTS The Group realised that the judicial path was not going to resolve the The mining division manages the impact of its operations on local conflict.
Instead it needed a solution to the issues underlying the lawsuits communities, from project inception to closure, and Somos Choapa and this required engagement with all the parties involved.
This process reflects the Groups wish for this commitment to go beyond the mere was guided by the Somos Choapa Principles and involved: legal requirements.
Thirteen open community meetings to discuss safety, water issues and Los Pelambres contribution to local development.
PREVENTING CONFLICT Full transparency during the meetings about the issues under discussion Water scarcity is a major community concern in Los Pelambres area of and what was being agreed.
Anyone could attend the meetings, which influence.
Besides operating the mine in a way to preserve water and being were recorded in full and made available on the internet.
an active participant in local water management initiatives, the Company is Formal consultation with the community under the supervision of external leading the private-public Salamanca Agreement to assess other potential observers, including Chile Transparente.
long-term solutions, such as the construction of a new public desalination facility and irrigation dams.
A formal vote on the written agreement by all adult members of the community, which was approved by a vast majority.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE The Caimanes Agreement covers: The Groups dams and other facilities are designed to resist extreme Additional works to ensure water availability for the Caimanes weather conditions and severe earthquakes.
This was demonstrated in community, even during severe drought, thus complying with the September 2015 when Los Pelambres tailings dam, El Mauro, remained Supreme Courts ruling.
unaffected after an 8.5 earthquake, whose epicenter was located some Additional works suggested by the community to increase its confidence 50km away.
The dams have periodical revisions carried out by independent in the safety of the El Mauro tailings dam.
experts to verify its structural integrity.
A fund to finance the development of the community and its As legally required, all four of the Groups mining operations follow member families.
emergency procedures approved by the national mining authority and their A committee made up of representatives from the community, response plans are co-ordinated with public agencies and other authorities.
Los Pelambres and Chile Transparente oversees the implementation of These plans include preventive and corrective operating measures at the Agreement.
INNOVATION, COMMUNITY AND EMERGENCY PLAN In 2016, using the approach developed as part of the Somos Choapa programme, Los Pelambres and the residents of the neighbouring Caimanes community discussed an agreed response procedure in case of an emergency at the El Mauro tailings dam.
As a result, the legally required emergency procedure was supplemented with a new Contingency Plan, which involved defining a new safety zone in the community as well as measures to issue warnings and improve evacuation procedures for any type of emergency.
The implementation of this plan started in 2016 and will be completed in 2017.
CO. UK 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED The acquisition of Zaldvar and the ramping-up of Antucoya have increased the Groups water consumption, greenhouse gas GHG emissions and ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP mining waste production, although some of these increases were offset by the closure of Michilla at the end of 2015.
However, efforts are underway to maintain efficiency indicators.
LOS PELAMBRES ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLAINT The Group endeavours to avoid environmental incidents and to comply with its legal commitments under its operating permits.
Environmental incidents In October 2016 Los Pelambres received notification of various charges have the potential to damage the environment as well as community against it from the Chilean environmental authority SMA.
They can also result in sanctions and even the cancellation of remains committed to full compliance and is working to address these key permits.
charges, some of which have been under discussion for several years.
Thecharges do not relate to the court cases that were resolved in 2016 The Groups environmental stewardship priorities are: nor to the protests regarding water availability in 2015.
Los Pelambres Ensuring compliance with all of its commitments under its operating is analysing various alternatives and is confident that it can resolve the permits, also known as the Environmental Approval Resolution RCA.
situation in a manner acceptable to the SMA.
Ensuring that all key environmental risk controls are in place.
Enabling the environmentally sound development of mining projects INNOVATION TO REDUCE THE IMPACT through the early identification and assessment of their potential environmental impact.
OF MINING Developing adequate responses to the mitigation of climate change, The Group continues to seek and find new solutions to mining protection of biodiversity and ensuring the proper closure of challenges.
It pioneered the use of untreated sea water at its Michilla mining operations.
operation in the 1990s and later did the same, on a much larger scale, In 2016 Antofagasta updated its environmental management system.
at Esperanza now Centinela and then Antucoya.
In 2016, Centinela Theimmediate goal was to get all four of its mining operations applying installed paste thickeners to increase the proportion of water being thesame standards to the assessment of environmental risk and to ensure recycled, depositing paste tailings and removing the need for a full compliance with their operating permits.
A system to track the sites conventional tailings dam.
compliance with their operating permits and to issue automatic alerts in In 2016 the Group participated in several research programmes case of breaches is under development.
on tailings management, acidic water treatment, dust control, tyre recycling and a plan to cover old tailings dams with endemic species ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT EIA of vegetation.
In Chile, all mining projects undergo a stringent environmental and social impact assessment EIA that is reviewed by the national Environmental Assessment Service and includes formal consultation with local WATER MANAGEMENT communities and indigenous people.
If the project is approved, its impact Antofagasta minimises its use of continental water resources through prevention, mitigation and compensation commitments become legally efficient consumption and by using sea water.
Two of the Groups newest binding, contained in its RCA.
The national Environmental Administration mines, Antucoya and Centinela Concentrates, use untreated sea water.
department regularly reviews companies compliance with these Centinela Cathodes, Zaldvar and Los Pelambres still use continental water.
commitments and any failures can result in severe fines and eventually However, a desalination plant will be built as part of the Los Pelambres therevocation of the RCA.
Incremental Expansion project to satisfy any increased water needs In April 2016, Los Pelambres submitted the EIA application for its at Los Pelambres and to supplement the mines requirements in case Incremental Expansion project and in December Centinela received approval of drought.
of its application for the Second Concentrator project, submitted in 2015.
The Group has achieved high water reuse rates of up to 86%, with zero discharge to waterways.
The remainder of the water either evaporates or 3 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTEXT remains in the tailings dam.
In 2016 it consumed 56 million m of water, 53% of which was continental water and 47% was sea water.
The Groups operations are located in two areas in Chile.
Los Pelambres is in the central Andean zone, at the head of the agricultural Choapa All of the Groups mining operations have water management plans.
Its main environmental issues are water, air quality, biodiversity Water quantity and quality are monitored respectively by the Chilean Water and archaeology.
Centinela, Zaldvar and Antucoya are further north, Bureau and the Chilean Health Bureau.
Local communities also participate in the Atacama Desert, with no agriculture nearby and only small local in this monitoring at Los Pelambres since 2012.
The quality of sea water communities as neighbours, none of which are in close proximity to is monitored at the port of Los Pelambres and at the dock that serves the the sites.
56 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUSTAINABILITY MINING WASTE CLIMATE CHANGE Waste at large-scale mining operations is in the form of rock, spent ore and Chile is vulnerable to climate change, which has increased average tailings.
Tailings are the material remaining after the valuable portion of the temperatures and reduced rainfall in the northern and central regions of the ore has been separated from the uneconomic portion.
The Chilean government has committed to a 30% reduction in GHG Centinela Concentrates use a flotation process and deposit their mining emissions intensity by 2030, despite the country contributing only 0.2% to waste in licensed tailings storage facilities.
Antucoya, Zaldvar and Centinela global emissions.
Cathodes use leaching to produce copper and have fully-permitted spent The Group continues to work on limiting GHG emissions through improved ore dumps.
energy efficiency and renewable sourcing.
The Group began reporting Centinela was the first large-scale mine in the world to use water-efficient its GHG emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP in 2009 and thickened tailings technology that also makes tailings more stable and offers developed its first integrated climate change strategy in 2015, the main better dust control.
Its expansion project will also use thickened tailings.
features of which are: Other solid industrial and domestic waste is separated and stored prior to Identifying risks and opportunities for the Groups operations arising from final disposal, in compliance with Chilean regulations for each type of waste.
Encouraging innovation to improve energy efficiency and the use of The Group has pioneered the use of raw sea clean energy.
water and thickened tailings technology to Mitigating GHG emissions.
reduce its consumption of continental water.
Measuring progress and reporting results, including CO emissions, in 2 accordance with the CDP.
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY The Groups production growth will increase The Groups energy demands are rising as a result of higher throughput GHG emissions.
However, it is committed to at its operations.
As production increases and grades decline, haulage offsetting this by improving energy ef ciency distances rise and a greater volume of water must be pumped from the sea.
As energy represents around 15% of the mining divisions total costs, and increasing its use of renewable energy.
investing in new and clean energy sources has major commercial as well as environmental benefits.
Antofagasta has no signi cant gaseous Over the past few years, the Group has secured renewable energy for emissions other than GHG.
Los Pelambres from conveyor belt self-generation as well as several wind and solar sources.
Renewables accounted for 42% of Los Pelambres total 1 CO EMISSIONS INTENSITY 2 energy requirement during 2016 and this is expected to increase to 80% on completion of the Alto Maipo hydroelectric project.
Centinela, Antucoya 3.67 and Zaldvar have long-term fuel indexed supply contracts, secured prior 3.24 3.09 2.98 to renewable sources becoming available, but as the contracts expire the 2.92 Group expects to be able to benefit from increasing renewable supply.
3.67 TONNES OF CO The Group remains committed to the ef cient 2 use of energy to reduce consumption per unit EQUIVALENT 12 13 14 15 16 of production and increase the percentage of 1.
Total CO emissions per tonne of copper 2 energy generated from renewable sources.
Data relates to the mining division only.
Total CO emissions per tonne of fine copper produced scopes 1 and 2 2 ANTOFAGASTA.
CO. UK 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED CLOSURE PLANNING DUST CONTROL Chilean legislation requires mining operations to have comprehensive closure plans approved by the National Geology and Mining Service Los Pelambres has developed a predictive model to anticipate local Sernageomin.
These plans identify key issues and define risk control weather affecting air quality around its operations.
This information measures that focus on preventing pollution and ensuring the permanent is used to prevent critical dust episodes by rescheduling blasting and stability of the tailings dams.
Plans include budgeting for remediation even, at times, suspending some activities.
The company also uses a work on closure and providing the financial resources to implement them.
set of measures to prevent and mitigate dust emissions at the mine Closure plans must be submitted for all new mining projects as part of their and its facilities, which are also closely monitored by its neighbours.
original application for environmental approval and must be updated every This preventive approach has proved effective, allowing Los Pelambres five years.
to operate below the legally permitted dust emission limits.
In 2016 the Group approved a new corporate closure standard that goes beyond what is legally required and provides further guidance on the management of environmental and social issues at the time of closure.
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE The Groups Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Board Committee oversees sustainability strategy and targets.
The Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee is one of five committees supporting the Board and met four times in 2016.
The Vice BIODIVERSITY President of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability oversees environmental, communications and public affairs issues for the Group and in addition each The Group has no operations in protected areas.
Its biodiversity challenges mining company and the transport division has a sustainability manager.
are concentrated around Los Pelambres, which is at the head of the Choapa valley, one of the worlds top 25 biodiversity areas due to its varied native Further information on the Board and its Sustainability and Stakeholder vegetation.
The Groups conservation efforts began in 2000, when it Management Committee can be found on pages 92 to 93. protected and rehabilitated an area previously used as an illegal waste dump into what is now an  coastal wetland under the ETHICS AND CORRUPTION PREVENTION Ramsar Convention.
It also protects one of the last remaining Chilean palm The Groups Code of Ethics was updated in 2016 to include modern slavery forests and in 2014 bought a 62.7-hectare site to ensure the conservation of and to emphasise respect for human rights.
It sets out the conduct expected the rare temperate relict rainforest of Santa Ines.
of directors, executives, employees and contractors, not just within the In 2016 the Group produced its first Biodiversity Standard, developed with Group but in their dealings with all stakeholders.
It reflects the Groups core the support of the Wildlife Conservation Society while incorporating the values of Respect, Safety and Health, Sustainability, Excellence, Innovation ICMMs policy guidelines on the subject.
The Standard includes a hierarchy and Forward Thinking.
of good practices to meet its objectives, in order to: The Crime Prevention Manual defines conflicts of interest and outlines Avoid or reduce as much as possible the impact of the Groups operations an anonymous whistleblowing procedure offering multiple methods on biodiversity and associated ecosystems.
In 2016 all employees were asked to complete a Restore and or compensate, as appropriate, when there is Declaration of Interest questionnaire in order to prevent potential conflicts unavoidable impact.
and approximately 1,000 workers participated in compliance workshops.
Contractor companies are also trained to adhere to the Groups compliance Generate additional benefits to the environment.
standards and are expected to report any unethical conduct.
Increase biodiversity awareness within the organisation.
Further information on the Groups Code of Ethics and Crime Consider biodiversity in the decision-making process.
Prevention Manual can be found on the Groups website, The main biodiversity challenges for Centinela, Antucoya and Zaldvar www.
are associated with the protection of the fauna occasionally found near their sites.
Los Pelambres and Centinela also monitor the marine PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS ecosystems at their port facilities for rapid detection of any impact on the The Group makes payments to governments related to activities involving marine environment.
exploration and the discovery, development and extraction of minerals.
In In order to update this information in line with the new Biodiversity June 2016, in accordance with specific UK regulations and requirements, Standard, all four mining operations have now begun to assess their own the Group published a report detailing the mining divisions payments to biodiversity performance.
governments for the year ended 31 December 2015.
These were primarily taxes paid to national, regional and local governments, and mineral licence For more information can be found in the Sustainability Report 2016. fees.
In 2015 these payments totalled $278 million, of which 99.9% were paid in Chile.
The full report is available on the Groups website at www.
Chilean law allows political contributions subject to certain requirements, but the Group made none in 2016.
However, it often contributes financing for projects that benefit neighbouring communities, in alliance with the municipalities and the government.
These contributions are regulated by specific laws and reviewed by the Chilean Internal Revenue Service.
58 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUSTAINABILITY COMPLIANCE AND SUPPLIERS MODERN SLAVERY ACT The Groups risk management and compliance function is responsible for Section 54 of the UKs Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires any company the corporate compliance programme overseen by the Boards Audit and operating a business in the UK, which supplies goods or services and Risk Committee.
Suppliers are required to provide specific information has a total annual turnover of 36 million or more, to publish an annual on their procedures concerning safety, anti-corruption, antitrust, modern statement setting out the steps it has taken to ensure that slavery and slavery and other areas.
human trafficking are not occurring in its supply chains or in any part of its business.
More information can be found in the Risk Management section on page 20.
In 2016 the Group prepared and published a statement for the first time.
This statement has been approved by the Antofagasta plc Board.
A full copy of the statement is available on the Companys website at: www.
HUMAN RIGHTS Steps were also taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking do not The Groups respect for human rights is reflected in its commitments occur in the Companys supply chains or in any part of its business, and to its employees, contractors and neighbouring communities: it intends to build on these actions over the coming years.
The following High safety and health standards actions were taken in 2016.
Fair wages and good labour relations Policies and Procedures: The Code of Ethics was reviewed and updated to prohibit the exercise of any form of exploitation or other Prevention of discrimination, harassment and bullying behaviours constituting slavery or human trafficking.
This includes the Application of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 requirement that all employees and suppliers must report any conduct Provision of quality accommodation, services and facilities at that is not in accordance with the Code of Ethics.
All reported incidents the operations will be thoroughly investigated to determine whether further action Opportunities for training and development should be taken.
All new contracts with suppliers include specific clauses requiring them to comply with the Groups compliance model.
Prevention of corruption and malpractice Due Diligence: Due diligence is performed on all new suppliers before Prevention or mitigation of environmental and social impacts they are engaged and periodically thereafter.
The process requires Respecting communities rights, culture and heritage suppliers to complete a questionnaire explaining their relevant internal Engaging in dialogue from exploration to closure models and procedures and includes third-party background checks.
Responding to grievances Risk Assessment, Accountability and Results: As part of the Groups risk assessment process, all suppliers are reviewed, based on due Supporting community development diligence analysis, the suppliers location and the slavery index of the country in which they operate.
During 2016, none of the Groups reviewed suppliers had issues relating to forced labour, child labour or Zaldvar is located 100 km from the Peine human trafficking.
Education and Training: During 2016 the new employee induction indigenous community, with which it has training programme and the e-learning training courses for existing established a relationship and will make sure to employees and contractors were updated to include training to ensure comply with the framework provided by Chilean that slavery and human trafficking are not occurring in the Group or in its supply chains.
legislation, ILO Convention 169 and theICMMs In 2017 the Group plans to: recommendations.
Monitor the effectiveness of actions taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking are not occurring in the Group or in its supply chains.
Engage external consultants to review its suppliers and the steps that they have taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking are not occurring in their supply chains.
The Groups current procedures, combined with these steps and the continual improvement of its compliance model, confirms to the Board that the likelihood of modern slavery taking place in its first-tier suppliers or in any part of its business is low and that it took appropriate steps in 2016 to confirm this and to extend the scope and effectiveness of its supplier assessments.
