Corporate and Social Responsibility Wanting to make a difference to the industries we serve and communities we live in is a common goal at Ascential.
Customers are at the heart of everything we do every day, Paper purchased in the business was 2,187 reams of A4 and and we constantly review what we produce and how we do it 174 reams of A3.
This is a reduction of 239 reams of A4 to ensure we remain ahead.
We have continued to progress and 74 reams of A3 over 2015.
Since 2014, the business our Corporate and Social Responsibility aims, particularly has reduced its A4 and A3 paper usage by more than 50% around supporting our employees and giving back to the and 40% respectively.
Over the past 12 months we have also Paper usage 2013 2014 2015 2016 further reduced our environmental impact, and introduced Magazine and other policies around labour standards, human rights and antiproduct print corruption policies throughout our business and supply chain.
tonnes 12,144 11,057 894 642 With these and other measures, we believe we are continuing to make a positive impact on our customers world-wide, the communities we live in and serve, and our people.
Greenhouse gas emissions statement Ascential is required to measure and report its direct and Increasing energy efficiency and recycling indirect greenhouse gas emissions by the Companies Act We have a policy across all existing and new buildings to work 2006.
We are required to disclose the Companys emission with our landlords to ensure installation of energy efficient low of carbon dioxide equivalence as well as CO2 intensity temperature hot water, low energy lighting and low power value while stating the methodology used to calculate these technology.
As a business, Ascential encourages recycling emissions.
The table below includes both combustion of fuel in all its forms.
and purchased electricity and gas associated with our offices.
2016 Unit Waste recycling Ascential works closely with our facilities management Scope 11 73.4 Tonnes of CO2e company and landlords to highlight any and all initiatives.
Scope 22 793.2 Tonnes of CO2e In 2016, the London-based business recycled 50 tonnes of Absolute carbon emissions tCO2 866.6 Tonnes of CO2e material, including 16 tonnes of general waste and 34 tonnes Intensity factors: of mixed paper.
This is an increase over 2015 and 2014 and Total area 17,989 Square metres was recognised with a most improved recycler award in 2016 Total headcount 1,612 Full time equivalence from one of our building landlords.
Carbon intensity area 48.2 Kg of CO2e per m2 Carbon intensity headcount 3 538.3 Kg of CO2e per FTE Reducing print in line with customer need Year on year change n a The business constantly seeks to improve print run efficiency and generate less waste on paper stock.
It purchases the 1 Scope 1 emissions are from fuel used in company-leased vehicles and are lowest paper volume necessary and uses only one or two calculated using the distance-based calculation method DEFRA GHG conversion grades across all titles and supplements.
Emissions from personal or privately-hired vehicles used for criteria of mill assessment rated on product grade, energy company business are considered to be Scope 3 GHG protocol and are not consumption per tonne and percentage of recycled fibre included following the operational control boundary approach see content from certified forestry sources and continues to Methodology and scope.
2 Scope 2 emissions are from the consumption of energy at Ascential offices and consolidate collection of overseas copies and scale back do not include approximately 40 home workers.
CO2 figures are based upon the usage of polywraps.
84% of Ascentials operations using office surface area with estimates for the remainder.
Where the consumption of energy other The paper requirement of the Group has diminished in recent than electricity eg natural gas is supplied as part of a leased buildings SLA and years with the sale of MBI in January 2015 and as many is not available, this information has not been included in the data.
3 Scope 3 does not include approximately 40 home workers.
customers have increased consumption of content on mobile and other devices rather than print.
This decline in paper Methodology and scope requirements has continued in 2016 as several products have Carbon dioxide equivalence emissions data has been collected, ceased print or reduced frequencies.
Initiatives are in place to calculated, consolidated and analysed following the GHG further reduce paper weight and volume in line with advances Protocol Corporate Accounting & Reporting Standard and in paper technology and customer demand and a further DEFRA Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2013 following significant drop in paper usage is expected in 2017 on the the operational control approach.
The boundary for reporting sale of the Heritage Brands.
extends to include all entities and facilities that are owned or leased by Ascential and are also actively managed by Ascential.
48 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Timeframe and future reporting Whistleblowers policy As this is the first year of reporting CO2e emissions following Ascential employees can report any malpractice without our IPO last year, only data for 2016 has been shown.
In future, fear of reprisals.
The Company has a robust whistleblower year over year emission figures will be given.
Furthermore, policy embedded in the employee handbook and available Ascential intends to review its environmental data management on the Intranet.
process with a view to continuing to improve data accuracy and disclosure going forward.
Business-wide training and zero tolerance to breaches of the Bribery Act Business travel Following Company-wide training on the Bribery Act, people Ascentials air travel showed a slight dip over the year earlier, across the business continue to report no breaches of the but remains something that the business watches and aims to Bribery Act.
The level of business travel by air is partly explained by the need to frequently visit the US, following the move of the Behaving ethically throughout our supply chain WGSN headquarters to New York in 2014, and the acquisition For Ascential, our suppliers, partners and other third parties of US brands Money20 20 in 2014: RetailNet Group in 2015 involved in the provision of goods or services to us are and One Click Retail in 2016.
The Company continues to important.
They underpin our ability to serve our customers encourage the use of video conference facilities and webinars through market-leading exhibitions, festivals and information as much as possible so as to remove any unnecessary travel.
While delivering these valued and trusted products, Where possible, the business encourages business use of trains it is important to us that we and our suppliers do business rather than cars.
responsibly, ethically and lawfully and in accordance with our code of conduct: Business integrity There is no tolerance of any form of corruption, bribery, fraud, extortion or embezzlement and business is conducted in a manner that avoids conflicts of interest.
No forced or There is no forced, involuntary or debt bonded labour in any form including slavery or trafficking of persons.
involuntary labour Freedom of Workers, without distinction, have the right to associate freely, join or not join labour unions, seek representation and join association workers councils as well as the right of collective bargaining in accordance with local laws.
Diversity and There is equality of opportunity and treatment regardless of physical attributes or condition including pregnancy, gender, equality religion or absence of such beliefs, political opinion, nationality, sexual orientation, age or ethnic background.
Equal pay for work of equal value is supported.
Discrimination or intimidation towards and between employees is opposed, including all forms or threats of physical and psychological abuse.
No child labour There are no workers under the age of 15, or where it is higher, the mandatory school leaving age in the local country.
The use of legitimate workplace apprenticeship programmes, which comply with all laws and regulations, is supported.
Fair competition Fair, business, advertising and competition is supported.
Intellectual There is respect for and protection of intellectual property rights, data and confidential information to safeguard it property, privacy against and prohibit loss and unauthorised use, disclosure, alteration or access.
Our intellectual property and confidential and data security information is handled and data processed on our behalf only for the purposes for which it was made available, received or collected in accordance with the reasonable directions provided by us.
Business continuity Any disruption of business is prepared for including but not limited to natural disasters, terrorism or cyber attacks.
Risks are frequently assessed and appropriate controls put in place and regularly tested.
Regulations, permits All required quality, health, safety and environment related permits, licences and registrations are obtained, maintained and registrations and kept up-to-date and their operational and reporting requirements are followed.
Quality, health, Proper provision is made for the health, safety and welfare of employees, visitors and contractors and those impacted safety and in the community who may be affected by their activities.
Third parties act responsibly in relation to the environment, environment regularly assess health, safety and environmental risks and appropriate controls are put in place bearing in mind the prevailing knowledge of the industry and any specific hazards.
49 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate and Social Responsibility continued Giving back Ascential employees want to make a difference to the world they live in and the communities they serve.
The business supports the pioneering childrens hospital, Great Ormond Street, raising funds to pay for specialised equipment.
Offices around the world also support local causes and raise much needed funds for their communities.
Ascential matches certain fundraising by staff and gives employees time off to volunteer Q for an organisation or charity they wish to support.
The Company is a Patron of The Princes Trust and employees give their time to help disadvantaged young people make a better start in life, and fundraise for this leading UK charity.
For the third year in a row, an Ascential Million Makers team was awarded seed financing to support their efforts to raise significant levels of funds.
Having raised almost 90,000 in & A 2015, the teams main focus was Decembers Gala Dinner, and they smashed through the prior year fundraising total to raise more than 170,000 in 2016.
How long has Ascential been a Patron of The PrincesTrust?
A. Ascential became a Patron of The Princes Trust in 2012.
Our partnership was borne out of my strong belief that team engagement, collaboration and leadership skills are intrinsic to both life and business success, and that the privileged should give back.
Why did Ascential choose The Princes Trust over othercharities to support?
The Princes Trust is a great fit for us.
One of the core traits of our people is their determination to improve the world around us for our customers, our community and ourselves.
This determination manifests itself in many ways not just fundraising, but also getting involved in the work of the charity itself.
Around the business, people feel passionate about giving a better start and work confidence skills to young people less fortunate than ourselves.
Why is it important to you that the business gives back?
Our business exists to make a difference to our customers and industries we serve, and to the communities we live Duncan Painter, Chief Executive Officer, in in.
We constantly seek to improve and better the world conversation with Chris Brook-Carter, MD, Retail Week around us.
We are proud to have helped many young people get a better start in life and we are looking forward to continuing to partner the Trust in its great work.
How does Ascential raise money?
People have successfully run bake sales, raffles, cycle rides, cocktail mixing and auctions of a host of prizes, donated by suppliers, customers or people in the business.
We have also run casino tables at several of our Award events as well hosting our own Princes Trust Gala Dinner which is our major annual fundraiser.
This is attended by our customers, suppliers, our plc Board members as well as people from around the business, all keen to support the event.
This has grown from strength to strength and I am so proud 50 of the team that put it all together.
Their hard work with our venue partners and persistence ensured the 2016 event was again well sponsored, with a fantastic Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 auction and raised a truly remarkable 170,000.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Q.
How else does Ascential support The Princes Trust?
How have you seen it contribute to the individuals within Ascential that have taken part in Million Makers?
We have supported young people in our communities by both visiting our local Princes Trust centres to see their A.
Everyone who teaches or mentors someone from The work first hand, and by hosting a variety of workshops Princes Trust knows they are making a real difference to and mentoring teaching CV preparation, job application the life of a disadvantaged young person.
Imparting lifewriting and business skills.
In 2017 we are working with changing skills builds confidence and strong relationship The Princes Trust to match 10 young people with an skills which can then be applied to our own business Ascential department including marketing, IT, facilities, and to further improve how we serve our customers.
and PR, for a two week placement that complements Collaborating and working with young people means you their interests and skillset.
Our talented people are keen have to listen to make sure you really understand what and able to give their time and tutoring skills to mentor they mean, rather than what they say this is a great skill and bring alive the confidence and energy of the intern, to have and an important lesson for anyone to learn.
while making a real difference to their future potential.
Our aim is to offer more places by the end of the year.
What is your best personal memory of Ascential and ThePrinces Trust?
Do you personally get involved in any of the challenges?
There are many, but meeting the young people that The A. I greatly admire those that have completed the major Princes Trust supports is always a delight.
A great memory challenges of walking the Great Wall in China or the bike from last year was seeing our Million Makers team take to rides to Paris with some envy.
I am looking forward to the stage at the gala dinner and announcing our fundraising getting time this year to participate in some less arduous total for the night.
There is little that can beat that.
event and would love to find time in the next couple of years to do one of the bigger challenges.
Right now, I believe I can add more personal value from the time and support I give to The Princes Trust Corporate Sponsors Committee to develop new ideas and have offered our internal media resources and teams to support its campaigns.
We have also introduced the Trusts great work to other corporate sponsors.
A personal highlight each year is hosting a table at our fundraising dinner and encouraging audacious bids to drive the fundraising efforts of our annual Million Makers team.
Its also a great occasion to cement relationships with the customers that attend they get to see us in a non-work environment, and we can have fun while raising money for a great cause.
