People and values Ascential brings together talented people and brilliant brands.
We work hard to attract and retain the best people in the industry to work on our portfolio of leading products and aim to be a destination employer in every one of our key operating territories and markets.
Valuing the diversity our people bring A leading approach to gender diversity Our business success is driven by difference and we value what In 2016, the Company took part in the Hampton-Alexander everyone brings.
We welcome all employees without unfair or review, which will see British business drive to improve further unlawful discrimination and aim to inspire everyone to do their the number of women in senior leadership positions and on the best work and build their careers with us.
The review had a stated aim that a third of all FTSE 100 leadership roles to be occupied by Our peoples opinions matter women by the end of 2020, up from 25% today.
"Ascential was Peoples opinions matter and we hold regular updates to both highlighted in the November 2016 review as ""leading the way"" inform them on business progress and answer any questions with 57.1% women on our plc Board, the highest in the entire they may have."
We conduct and act upon annual employee opinion surveys Share ownership which, along with face-to-face feedback, is key to help us One of our business beliefs is that when the Company understand what people think, and what they want to achieve prospers, we want everyone who has contributed to prosper.
Each area of the business also regularly hosts face-to-face all-staff meetings known as Town Halls, When we floated the Company on the London Stock Exchange webinars and team briefings to share news and progress in February 2016, everyone employed by the business at that against priorities.
time was gifted 500 shares subject only to their continued employment in 2019.
Later in the year, we launched the UK At the 2016 Company conference, our CEO and CFO hosted and International Sharesave and US Stock Purchase saving an open, live Q&A session, taking questions from the floor.
plans for employees wishing to invest in Ascential plc shares.
Responses were recorded and posted to the Intranet for These plans enable people who wish to enrol to save a set sum people unable to attend.
The post-event survey recorded this each month and in future years buy shares at a discounted as one of the most popular segments and it was repeated in purchase price.
33% of all eligible employees decided to January 2017.
Early on the day we announced our half-year participate, saving on average 203 per month.
2016 results, the CEO and CFO again hosted a webinar for staff, before meeting external analysts, investors and members Benefits of the press.
As part of an attractive overall employment package, people are offered a range of benefits, which they have the opportunity to amend during the year.
We seek to offer solutions that speak to our different generations, so benefits are constantly reviewed and introduced, extended or removed depending on demand and feedback.
Leading the way with 57.1% women on plc Board Hampton-Alexander Review, November 2016 A breakdown of our employees by gender and management positions, is shown below: Full time employees Part time contracts In management positions As at 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Men 666 43% 646 43% 7 8% 8 10% 178 43% 178 43% Women 891 57% 864 57% 77 92% 75 90% 239 57% 238 57% Total 1,557 1,510 84 83 417 416 46 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Employee engagement and rewards Embedding industry leading standards Ascential is a fast-paced, international business.
We are a Ascential offers an annual sales academy, led by external responsible destination employer and are determined to attract sales experts, as well as a sales reward programme, sales and retain the best in our industry by offering our people great performance programme and leadership Alumni programmes.
opportunities to develop and grow their careers with us.
We offer regular training and reward linked to performance.
Content First programme To ensure we set ourselves up for future success, inspire Ascential Excellence Awards world-class content and embed a content excellence culture, Some of the most hotly contested awards each year are the Ascential offers a Content First programme.
Run by one of Ascential Excellence Awards, which are open to all employees.
Ascentials most respected and successful content leaders Judged by senior leaders of the business and external industry with an outstanding track record in driving exceptional experts, they are a fun and effective way for the achievements content, the in-house Content First programme aims to of individuals and teams to be recognised and celebrated at a further embolden our content talent across the whole gala dinner during the all-Company conference each January.
business to deliver the content our customers need, when they need it and in a simple to find and digest format.
Elite This generous reward programme is open to every highThe Ascential Content First programme will run for the performing employee across the Group.
Sales league next 24 months to ensure we develop our next generation winners, content creators and business support individuals of world-class content leaders.
To achieve the overall aim are recognised with rewards, including tickets to exclusive of constantly improving content for our customers, we also venues, dinners and sporting days out.
The highlight of the offer additional opportunities for our content leaders to Elite programme is during the annual Ascential conference collaborate with other teams to assist them to drive content when winners of the Holidays of a Lifetime including excellence within their own teams and brands.
Armed with for the top content and highest sales achievers in each robust data around customer insight and market knowledge, business area are announced.
Elite enables a clear line these leaders will continue to raise the standard of Ascentials of sight from personal performance to personal reward.
content to be the best in each of the industries we serve.
All-Ascential conference We held our first all-Company conference in January 2016 which enabled more than 1,000 individuals to network, share personal and team learnings and collaborate.
Our annual conference and Gala Awards night has become an important part of our journey to a more informed and connected Ascential.
The event is a large investment by the Company, but we believe is key to continuing to share, learn, connect with colleagues and celebrate the great work of individuals and teams across the business.
Journey ahead People is a core capability at which we must excel.
While we have made good progress towards putting in place the structure, learning and support to enable everyone to reach their goals and develop their careers with us, we also recognise that there is always more to do on the journey ahead.
Ascential values Laser focus Creating value Progressive growth We have an absolute clarity of purpose.
We place great value in our people, in We are curious with a sense of purpose.
We help businesses create potential for difference, diversity and an outward We enable continuous growth for our an inspiring future.
We do this through looking perspective.
Our purpose is to people, our business and our customers, our products and services that bring create value for the industries we serve, making us change-ready with a growth together business communities our people, and for our investors by mind-set collaborative, open, authentic, and ideas.
providing the most influential platforms empathic and relevant.
and forums for leaders of industry.
We derive true value from exceptional knowledge, brilliant relationships and looking for important and unique connections.
