40 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT BEING RESPONSIBLE IN EVERYTHING WE DO HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE Implementation Recruitment Monitoring Career development and training Training Rewards and benefits Customers and staff Diversity and equal opportunities COMMUNITIES THE ENVIRONMENT Community investment Resource efficiency Helping out in emergencies Control of hazardous substances Mandatory GHG emissions reporting ENSURING ASHTEAD REMAINS A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS We seek to act responsibly in everything we do.
The obligation for ensuring Ashtead remains a responsible Being responsible is a crucial part of who we are business rests with the Groups board of directors.
It is assisted and how we work at Ashtead.
At the most basic in this function by the Group Risk Committee which is chaired level, acting responsibly is all about the trust by Suzanne Wood, our finance director.
Other members of the that makes our business function.
Trust that the Committee are: equipment we provide will do what we say it will, the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants risk, environmental and be well maintained to make sure it works and be health and safety teams: UK and US counsel: compliant with all health and safety requirements.
the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants performance standards And then delivering all of that every time a internal operational audit teams: and customer makes a new order or a new customer the Sunbelt board member to whom the risk, environmental, hears we are worth trying out.
health and safety teams report.
At a broader level, being responsible means we seek, through our The Group Risk Committee provides the Audit Committee, and sustainable business model, to improve the lives of our customers, through them the Board, with a comprehensive annual report on its employees, investors and the communities where we live and activities including new legislative requirements, details of areas work.
Our customers trust us to provide better service than our identified in the year as requiring improvement, and the status of competitors.
Our employees trust us to keep them safe and reward actions being taken to make those improvements.
It also facilitates them well for their efforts.
Investors trust us to deliver good returns the coordination of the environmental, health, safety and risk throughout the economic cycle.
management activities of Sunbelt and A-Plant so that best practice and new initiatives in one business can be shared with, and adopted Above are the responsible business elements that we judge to be by, the other.
the most material to our business and which we discuss in detail here.
We assess why each matters, how we have performed and our objectives.
STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 41, 1000 EMPLOYEES TRAINED IN VEHICLE SAFETY This year Sunbelt rolled out a new online Incident Prevention Model Our commitment to the highest ethical standards means that the to focus on and measure those metrics that ultimately have a direct Group Risk Committee also works to ensure these continue to be impact on our key measures of Total Recordable Incident Rate, communicated and upheld throughout the business.
Our groupWorkers Compensation Incurred Cost and Vehicle Incident Rate.
wide ethics and entertainment policies are communicated directly Sunbelt also rolled out new safety initiatives Near Miss Reporting, to employees through dedicated communication and training Pre-Task Planning and Post Incident Management and we have programmes.
Whistle-blowing arrangements, in place in both the already seen improvements in our safety culture and an improvement US and the UK, allow employees, in confidence, to raise concerns in metrics.
This year Sunbelt had 948 reported incidents in the about any alleged improprieties they may encounter.
US relative to a workforce of 9,877 2015: 608 incidents relative The Group Risk Committee priorities this year included: to a workforce of 8,401, whilst A-Plant had 284 incidents relative to an average workforce of 2,953 2015: 274 incidents relative to assessment of the Group Risk Register: an average workforce of 2,593.
For the purposes of our internal identification and prioritisation of business risks: tracking, the term incident does not necessarily mean that an reduction in accident rates: employee was hurt or injured.
Rather it represents an event that continued training on driving hours and vehicle fleet compliance: we want to track and report for monitoring and learning purposes health and safety training: under our health and safety management policies.
There has been enhanced training capabilities, particularly for key field increased focus in the US this year on timely reporting of every personnel: incident or first aid event that occurs.
This established very specific continued evaluation of driver behavioural software tools: criteria on first aid reporting which contributed to the increase in refresher Competition Act and Bribery Act training: incidents in the US.
updated business continuity plan: disaster recovery plan testing: Reportable accidents continue to be defined differently in the US performance standards audits: and and UK.
Under the relevant definitions which generally encompass cyber security.
more accidents in the US than in the UK, Sunbelt had 149 OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Administration recordable HEALTH AND SAFETY accidents 2015: 179 accidents which, relative to total employee Why it matters hours worked, gave a Total Incident Rate of 1.41 2015: 1.59.
In the Health and safety are fundamental to our business as we need to UK, A-Plant had 26 RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and provide equipment that is safe to use and minimise the risks our Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2015: 29, reportable people and our customers may encounter.
A strong reputation for incidents which, relative to total employee hours worked, gave a excellent health and safety is a significant competitive advantage RIDDOR reportable rate of 0.42 2015: 0.55.
In order to compare for us.
In addition, an ever-changing regulatory focus on safety and accident rates between the US and UK, Sunbelt also applied the more stringent requirements for all operators continues to assist RIDDOR definition to its accident population which gave a figure this our growth.
It is easier and cheaper to outsource responsibility year of 69 RIDDOR reportable accidents in the US and a RIDDOR for equipment safety to us than for customers to worry about it reportable rate of 0.26.
We remain committed to continuing to themselves.
This has been an important factor in the shift to reduce these rates as much as possible.
rental that has underpinned our growth in the US and reinforces Safety initiatives our position in the UK.
Driver and vehicle safety Our extensive health and safety programmes monitor, develop and Our motor vehicle incident rate continues to decline.
In 2016, we maintain safe working practices while reminding our employees anticipate additional decreases as we roll out our Driver Behaviour of the need to be safe at all times and look after their own health.
Management System DBMS in the US.
The DBMS takes data from Our continued improvement is accomplished through a combination our on-board telematics units and communicates it directly to our of proactive safety and leadership training, enhanced safety Motor Vehicle Compliance Team.
The overall goal is to recognise programmes and timely incident response and investigation.
We and address unsafe behaviours before they result in an incident.
also help our customers ensure the safety of their own employees, including providing safety training as required.
In addition, we make Our US transportation fleet continues to operate as one of the a considerable annual investment in ensuring our rental equipment safest fleets in the equipment rental industry.
We continued our meets or exceeds the latest safety standards, as well as providing commercial vehicle training programme across the US, with more health and safety advice and materials along with each rental.
than 1,000 employees trained in vehicle safety and compliance.
Over the last three years, our US commercial vehicle training How we monitor performance programmes have been instrumental in the education of more than We monitor health and safety by the number of reported incidents 11,000 employees nationwide.
We lead the industry in continuously that occur during our work.
We track and analyse all incidents to supporting the training and education of employees in commercial enable us to identify recurrent issues and implement preventative vehicle compliance and safety.
The importance of health and safety is reflected in the fact that the number of reportable accidents is one of our group-wide KPIs see page 29.
42 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT CONTINUED In the UK, our driver training courses are aimed at delivery drivers formally aligning its policies and procedures against and cover areas such as loading and unloading of vehicles, working OHSAS18001: at height, site safety and manual handling.
All general drivers at evaluating a need to align with ISO 14001: and A-Plant, including delivery drivers and fitters, are required to developing and beta testing a peer-on-peer observation undertake the A-Plant Driver Induction Course, which is delivered programme in each of its specialty businesses.
in the form of workshops and covers transport procedures, For several years, A-Plant has been using successfully the Setting legislation, hazard perception and practical driver assessments.
the Safety Standard brand to promote the message that A-Plant A number of UK customers have called upon contractors to make is industry-leading when it comes to safety.
In addition, it wanted safety improvements to vehicles and improve driver training to to foster internally the fact that everyone is responsible for their protect cyclists through the Construction Logistics and Cycle own safety, with the aim of helping the business achieve a reduction Safety initiative CLOCS.
CLOCS is a voluntary scheme, but we in accidents.
To do this it launched the Work Safe Home Safe have taken the initiative and organised the first Safe Urban Driving campaign for staff with five golden rules: course with our drivers from Milton Keynes, Colchester, Norwich 1.
Before you start work, be aware of any potential risks.
and Cambridge stores, focused specifically on safety for cyclists.
Stop work if it cant be done safely.
Other safety initiatives At Sunbelt we conducted Safety Coordinator Bootcamps for each 3.
I f safe to do so, intervene if the actions of others might be unsafe.
Safety Coordinator in the company.
These training sessions ensure Dont walk by.
that each store has a representative trained in many of the best 4.
Maintain a safe, clean and tidy working environment.
practices we measure and use.
Always wear the appropriate personal protective equipment.
In 2016 we will be working to improve our internal systems further and focus on rolling out three significant initiatives to our The campaign is being promoted widely throughout the business operations: Sunbelt Safety, Health & Environmental SH&E with promotional posters, messages, a video and merchandise Committees, a Short-Service Employee Programme, and the Stop being distributed to every store.
While these programmes are being rolled out, Sunbelt and A-Plant both hold an annual safety week, designed Sunbelt will continue to focus on: to increase awareness of the importance of safety across the revising the regional safety manager annual audit: business.
Through a combination of presentations and workshops, key safety messages are shared with all employees.
roll-out of a SH&E perception survey: perfecting its online incident reporting tool: utilising the audit inspection tool to conduct warehouse SH&E inspections via iPad: EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT: JEFF HUDSON It is two and a half years since specialty lifting business, FLG Services, was acquired by A-Plant and former owner Jeff Hudson says the time has flown by.
Jeff says the most surprising thing for him has been that even though he is now part of a much bigger FTSE 100 group, the directors of Ashtead have encouraged him to develop the business as if it were still his own.
Even his original orange FLG hook brand has been incorporated within A-Plant its just green now.
When FLG was first acquired, Jeff had four locations based around London.
Now he has 16 locations nationwide.
He says there is no way he could ever have dreamt of the scale of investment needed to build what FLG is now.
Being part of a bigger organisation also means Jeff believes FLG to be a safer and tighter business now than it was before being acquired.
He says the support he has received from Ashtead has been second to none.
STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 43 16 LIFTING LOCATIONS ACROSS THE UK Increasingly, as we grow, we are adding to our employees through Health programmes acquisition.
When we acquire companies, we also acquire their Its important to us to have a healthy workforce and we work hard knowledgeable and dedicated staff who have often built up a to look after our people and help them look after themselves.
If the business has a strong brand, we keep When our staff are on top form, they provide the best service to our the brand, particularly in the UK.
To maintain that success, we customers.
Virgin Health Miles is a programme we use to reward adopt a circumspect approach when it comes to integrating new our US staff for healthy behaviour, so they are incentivised to track staff into the Group.
Employees contracts and conditions are their health and invest in it to reap the rewards that we are investing analysed, and if there are differences with Group terms, we in the programme on their behalf.
Staff get savings on their phase-in any convergence over a period of time.
We want new healthcare costs if they exercise, for example.
Some 30% of US staff employees to be engaged with the new environment in which they are currently enrolled in the scheme and 40% of those are earning find themselves, so we hold a presentation day for staff where health miles.
Members have earned $104,000 in rewards and senior management present an overview of the Group, our plans 63% of respondents reported that the programme makes Sunbelt for the acquired company and how they fit into our strategy for a better place to work.
We then further demonstrate our commitment to our Working on safety with our customers and suppliers new employees by investing in the business they helped build.
Being a responsible business means sharing and promoting our Sunbelt Workday implementation safety culture with our customers and suppliers whenever possible.
At the beginning of 2016 we launched the first phase of Workday, For example, Sunbelt and A-Plant have dedicated aerial work Sunbelts new online Human Capital Management System.
platform, forklift and earth moving operator trainers who train The goal of Workday was to merge the numerous human resource customers and we build customised training programmes to fill HR systems Sunbelt employed into one integrated, streamlined their needs.
In the US, Zachry and NBC Universal are two examples solution for both the field and HR department.
Through Workday, of customers where we worked with the customers safety team we are able to offer a single source for recruiting, on-boarding, to develop customised aerial work platform and forklift training payroll, time tracking, benefits, and employee self-service.
The courses, sometimes for a specific jobsite, the passing of which second phase includes launching Workday for Sunbelt Rentals becomes a requirement for the customer operator.
In the UK, Canada as well as introducing a Talent Performance Management A-Plant regularly participates in training days for major customers, module, additional integrations including one with Sunbelts demonstrating safe use of equipment and running training Learning Management System that will enable employees and seminars.
This is in addition to the routine safety briefings that managers to view transcripts in Workday, as well as advanced accompany equipment rental.
OUR PEOPLE Through Workday, employees have already benefitted by having a Why they matter one-stop source where they can update their personal information, We endeavour to hire the best people, train them well and look view their paystubs, update benefits information, and apply for after them so that they provide the best possible service for our jobs internally.
Likewise, supervisors now have an invaluable tool customers.
Our aim is to keep employee turnover as low as possible to help better manage their direct reports.
For the first time, to enable us to build on the skill base we have established.
This is every employee can view Sunbelts comprehensive organisational core to the success of the business and our competitive position reporting structure across all divisions to gain a better and therefore staff turnover is one of our KPIs see page 29. understanding of the company as a whole and better equip themselves to serve our customers.
As we continue to grow, In general, the rental industry suffers from high staff turnover, Workday will enable us to be more efficient in how we engage particularly within certain job categories such as mechanics and with our employees: as well as work and communicate with delivery truck drivers, with turnover being particularly high within them throughout the entire employee life cycle.
the first year of employment.
We increasingly find our staff targeted by competitors which, whilst a compliment, means we have to work harder to retain them.
Our employees are driven, conscientious and loyal and we work hard to maintain that through market-leading training and development and superior reward and benefits.
Both Sunbelt and A-Plant have extensive programmes in place to ensure high standards of recruitment, training and the appraisal, review and reward of our employees.
In addition, we endeavour consistently throughout the year to maintain and develop arrangements aimed at involving employees in the Groups affairs and hearing their views.
Regular meetings are held at stores to discuss performance and enable employees to input into improvements as well as providing feedback on their own levels of satisfaction.
44 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT CONTINUED EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT: PAIGE CARTER Last year, at just 18 years old, A-Plant apprentice Paige Carter became the first female apprentice to win Apprentice of the Year at the Construction Plant-hire Associations Stars of the Future Awards.
Paige had earlier been awarded Level 2 Apprentice of the Year at the event and went head to head with other winners to clinch the national title.
Nearly 600 apprentices in the construction plant trade were eligible for the competition which shows how well Paige has performed in her work to win the award.
One example of Paiges work is when a faulty engine required 3,000 to replace it.
Paige stripped down two other old engines in the yard, tested the parts and then used them to repair the faulty engine all by herself.
As well as her drive to become a competent and skilled fitter, she is very customer focused and will attend customer sites to carry out routine services and repairs, always contacting the customers in advance to schedule in visits to ensure downtime is kept to a minimum.
Paige is a truly outstanding employee.
Recruitment Military recruitment With Sunbelts rapid growth, recruiting new employees is of the At a more senior level, we actively recruit military service utmost importance.
Our recruitment efforts are not only focused members and veterans, appreciating that their experience gives on finding the right employees and communicating the benefits candidates a sense of discipline, dedication, responsibility and a of working for Sunbelt, but bringing awareness and excitement determination to do the job right the first time.
These valuable skills about the opportunities we provide.
To aid in our recruitment are transferable to many of our employment positions.
Sunbelt and retention efforts we have set up a number of programmes features a former military employee as a spotlight on its Military initiatives including: Recruiting page on its website each month.
This practice is designed to educate our own employees, but also to drive interest Manager In Training MIT among retired military personnel in a career at Sunbelt.
Sunbelt This programme identifies top talent out of college and the is a Top 50 military employer.
military and places them through an accelerated training programme.
In the UK, as a result of our efforts to hire and develop former The MIT programme is based out of our top-performing stores members of the armed forces, A-Plant received the bronze award and provides focused, hands-on training allowing the MIT from the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Scheme.
graduate to easily perform their duties while on a direct path We also work in partnership with British Forces Resettlement to management, with incentives for staying with Sunbelt after Services BFRS a social enterprise created to help the armed the programme has ended.
forces community with their transition into civilian life.
BFRS works Pump & Power and Scaffolding Services have already both with service leavers to provide them with the skills and opportunities benefitted from the implementation of this programme.
they need to successfully resettle after leaving the armed forces.
Partnership with Lone Star Community College to identify and Career development and training hire top technicians Training and development continues throughout the careers of One of Lone Star Community Colleges focus areas is diesel our employees and we have many programmes in place to ensure and industrial training.
they achieve their ambitions, reach their potential and remain safe, With locations in several major metro areas, the partnership as outlined above.
Employees welfare and job satisfaction is provides a broad range of candidates able to relocate in the enormously important and we invest significant money and time surrounding areas.
in facilitating career development and evolving training to reflect A-Plant apprenticeship programme the changing needs of our workforce.
A-Plants apprenticeship programme continues to be one of the Sunbelt has implemented a number of new training and most successful and highly valued schemes in the equipment rental development initiatives including a new two-day leadership and industry.
Last year we took on 89 trainees and this year we will be coaching training programme for store managers during the year.
Our apprentice programmes take Approximately 50% of store managers have so far completed between two and three years to complete and usually include outside the training and it has achieved good satisfaction scores from training and a formal NVQ qualification, in addition to on-the-job attendees.
Sunbelt has also implemented a Wynne system training training.
We have five apprentice streams plant maintenance, and practice environment allowing new employees to safely customer service, driver, electro technical and mechanical practice customer scenarios, in a training environment that mirrors engineering.
We are also launching an HNC trainee scheme in the live system.
This provides practical experience before official civil engineering for our specialist division, Leada Acrow.
We are on-site training and observation.
pleased that our efforts to increase diversity mean that a quarter of our apprentices are female, which compares very favourably with the 90% male apprentices average for the construction industry.
Our apprentice scheme also has an impressive 76% retention rate compared to the industry rate of circa 65%.
STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 45 VETERAN SPOTLIGHT: ROB SMITH Rob joined the Sunbelt team in 1999 as a customer service representative and has held numerous positions since then.
As a result of his drive, Rob is now the Business Development Manager for Pump & Power Services and his leadership positively impacts employees and customers alike.
The characteristics that make Rob an invaluable employee at Sunbelt Rentals can be traced back to his military career with the U. S. Navy where he was Mess management Specialist aboard the USS Key West, stationed in Virginia Beach and later Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.
Rob says submariners are required to know all systems and operations beyond their normal duties and that helped him adapt quickly when he joined Sunbelt and tried to learn as many systems as he could.
Rob moved from customer service to driving, then becoming a dispatcher and then store manager in the fast-growing specialty Pump & Power business.
Eventually, Rob moved into project management and began working on new acquisitions for Pump & Power.
We flex our incentive plans to reflect the stage of the cycle in which A structured two-week on-boarding programme was also we operate, which we believe is an important element in retaining developed for store-level employees.
The objective was to ensure the confidence of our workforce through the economic cycle.
a consistent and repeatable process for new recruits.
As part In addition to their core benefits, including pension and life of our commitment to continued education and development, assurance arrangements, we have an employee assistance helpline Sunbelts Customer Service Representative Development which offers free confidential support and advice to those in need.
programme provides a one-day training class, preceded by an We also have other benefits such as Virgin Health Miles, as online course focused on operational and customer service mentioned earlier, to promote good health amongst our employees.
Approximately 75% of all customer service representatives have participated in this training.
This year, as an additional benefit, A-Plant introduced a holiday sell back scheme.
This allows employees to sell unused or unwanted In 2015, A-Plant held over 4,500 employee training days through a wide range of courses including the safety training highlighted holiday days back to the company, giving them the opportunity to earlier.
In order to identify training needs when recruiting, A-Plant exchange some of their holiday entitlement for additional pay and has developed a series of competence forms and adopted the OSAT allow the employee more flexibility and choice in how they use their On Site Assessment and Training programme.
Each employee has contractual benefits.
their skills mapped against the qualification framework through Diversity and equal opportunities assessment and any skills gaps are filled through training.
Through Providing equal opportunities for all our staff and employment this process we can be sure of developing the skills and qualifying diversity are priorities for Ashtead.
Our recruitment comes the experience of our workforce.
To evaluate the effectiveness of predominantly from the areas immediately around our facilities our training, we issue all delegates with feedback forms and these thereby providing opportunities for local people.
We make are evaluated and actioned as required.
We have also used our every reasonable effort to give disabled applicants and existing appraisal reviews to identify several management training employees who become disabled, opportunities for work, training initiatives that will be launched later in 2016. and career development in keeping with their aptitudes and All senior employees at A-Plant are now required to undertake an abilities.
We do not discriminate against any individual on the e-learning module on The Green Caf A-Plants e-learning portal basis of a protected status, such as sex, colour, race, religion, to ensure they understand their obligations and responsibilities with native origin or age.
regard to competing fairly and the Bribery Act 2010.
The module In the US we are required by law to monitor ethnicity in our must be completed every 12 months, and only a 100% score on workforce every year and we maintain a diverse workforce.
Employees must repeat the module We also gather ethnicity data as part of the recruitment process until they achieve 100%.
in the UK and through an Equality and Inclusion Survey to monitor Reward and benefits our diversity.
Increasingly, many local authority and public sector We believe in treating our staff well and rewarding them for the tenders request this kind of information.
We are committed to effort they put in on our behalf.
providing opportunities for people from all ethnic groups and in both geographies we have good representation from ethnic We use a combination of competitive fixed pay and attractive minorities across the organisation.
incentive programmes to reward and motivate staff and these drive our profits and return on investment.
Our sales force is incentivised through our commission plans which are based on sales, both volume and price achieved, and a broad measure of return on investment determined by reference to equipment type and discount level.
46 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT CONTINUED While our industry has traditionally had many more men than COMMUNITIES women, we do have women at all levels in both the US and UK Why they matter including on the Board, on the senior management team and as The communities in which we operate have always been important store managers, sales executives and apprentices.
As we expand our market share, particularly in the US, prioritise recruiting the best people for every role, we are working we have ever more impact and influence over the communities to make it easier for more women to join the organisation, where we hire staff and make an economic contribution.
Our particularly as we expand.
responsibility to those communities increases likewise.
In addition, our staff feel great pride in providing a service for the community.
Our business is about helping people and getting things done.
WORKFORCE BY GENDER It is about finding solutions, especially when there has been an emergency or a disaster like a major flood or a hurricane, for Number of employees Male Female Female % example.
Contributing to the communities where we operate is Board directors 8 2 20% an important differentiating factor for Ashtead staff as well as being Senior management 23 2 8% attractive to new recruits.
All staff 11,992 1,120 9% Community initiatives In the locations where we work, we have multiple community-based programmes which often tie in well with what we do and how we HUMAN RIGHTS do it.
Raising our profile in the community in this way is completely At Ashtead we believe in the rights of individuals and take our consistent with our desire to do more in terms of the quality of life responsibilities seriously to all our employees and those who may of our staff and their families.
be affected by our activities.
We have policies in place, such as whistle-blowing procedures which protect our employees as they Our stores regularly support and participate in local charity events go about their work.
These policies form part of our way of doing and community service.
For example, we provide support to many business and are embedded in our operations.
Thus, while we community sporting events, including sponsoring a local softball do not manage human rights matters separately, we continue to team in Dallas and various charity golf tournaments across the US.
assess potential risks and do not believe they raise particular We also continue to work closely with our designated charitable issues for the business.
partner, the American Red Cross and its affiliates such as the Second Harvest Food Bank for which we have a food drive every November.
We allow employees to make payroll deductions to contribute to the American Red Cross or the Sunbelt Employee Relief Fund.
Our Charlotte support office took part in the 2015 Charlotte Corporate Cup, which features a half marathon, 10k and 5k race and hosted a Red Cross blood drive in the autumn.
GARY SINISE FOUNDATION The Gary Sinise Foundation supports military veterans by creating and supporting unique programmes designed to entertain, educate, inspire, strengthen and build communities.
Sunbelt is in a perfect position to help the foundation with the R. I. S. E. Restoring Independence Supporting Empowerment programme which provides severely wounded veterans and their families with resources to overcome the challenges of life after their injuries.
A major area of focus for R. I. S. E. is the building of custom smart homes.
The Sunbelt partnership with R. I. S. E. gives contractors access to tools and equipment at no cost.
In addition, Sunbelt provides a portion of revenue generated from custom-wrapped equipment to the Foundation in the form of a cash donation.
With a history of community and veteran support, this partnership continues to drive Sunbelts culture of giving back.
STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 47 Our Whitehaven team supplied equipment for use during the Hospice at Home West Cumbria 2015 Colour Run.
Runners completed a 1k or 5k route whilst getting covered with coloured powder paint along the way.
The event raised over 30,000 for palliative care for those with life-limiting illnesses, as well as helping and supporting their families and carers, and the bereaved.
In the UK we continue to support CRASH, the construction and In 2015, at Sunbelt, the safety and environmental departments property industrys charity for homeless people.
As a patron of merged, creating the Safety, Health and Environmental the charity, A-Plant has been instrumental in delivering improved Department.
This move improves organisational awareness and accommodation to homeless people through professional focus to our environmental initiatives because safety managers expertise, building materials and financial donations.
Last year we are now also responsible for bringing awareness and compliance were also involved in setting up Emmaus Salford, a new community to environmental initiatives.
Safety managers are fully trained and capable of identifying risks associated with safety and recently opened in Greater Manchester which comprises a shop environmental issues.
and accommodation for the homeless.
A-Plant worked alongside Network Rail volunteers and fellow CRASH patron, Dulux Trade, In the UK, to comply with the new Energy Savings Opportunity to assist in the conversion of a near-derelict former council office Scheme ESOS, we implemented ISO 50001 awareness training building.
We supplied a range of equipment for use during the for all the performance standards team in 2015.
ESOS is a refurbishment, including transformers, wallpaper strippers, mandatory energy assessment scheme for organisations in the scaffold towers, podiums and steps.
UK that meet the qualification criteria based on size and we are delighted to have achieved ISO 50001 certification.
Organisations As part of our commitment to the Princes Trust, Ashtead made that qualify for ESOS must carry out ESOS assessments every a donation of 15,000 last year which helped young people gain four years.
These assessments are audits of the energy used access to jobs in construction, civil engineering and other sectors by their buildings, industrial processes and transport to identify associated with the built environment.
Ashtead forms part of the cost-effective energy-saving measures.
Organisations must notify Princes Trust Built Environment Leadership Group and donations the Environment Agency that they have complied with their ESOS from this group helped 1,000 young people move into the sector obligations.
In relation to ISO 50001, our significant impacts include in 2015. electricity, natural gas for heating and diesel for our transport fleet.
Our commitment to improving energy performance is intended to THE ENVIRONMENT reduce our impact on the environment and could deliver significant Why it matters cost savings.
As we expand our territory and service offering, we necessarily have more of an impact on the environments around our stores.
In addition we have made fleet efficiency gains in the UK.
The Fleet We make every effort to ensure that our impact is a positive one Operator Recognition Scheme FORS is an accreditation scheme and to limit any negative impact we may have in the course of our that aims to improve vehicle fleet activity throughout the UK and work.
This helps us save on costs, on any potential damage to our beyond.
The overarching scheme encompasses all aspects of reputation and also helps build that level of trust our customers safety, fuel efficiency, economical operations and vehicle emissions.
It also helps our staff feel good about where they work Every A-Plant location is now FORS accredited to Bronze level and helps to build good relationships with the communities around with 25 accredited to Silver, meaning we are meeting legislative our stores.
requirements, as well as helping to increase environmental and operational efficiencies.
BY ROYAL APPOINTMENT A-Plant has helped many families and groups across the UK with building projects, through our association with DIY SOS, the BBCs flagship DIY show.
Our latest contribution saw us involved in an attempt to regenerate a rundown community in Manchester.
The aim was to transform two entire streets, turning empty properties into homes for war veterans and building a support centre to help other veterans find homes and jobs.
The team were joined by two very special royal helpers, Prince William and Prince Harry, who volunteered on site.
The trades came together to build homes for two former soldiers who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan and are suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, before also helping them find new careers in the building trade.
In total, 62 homes were transformed.
For the project, general tool, our accommodation division and Leada Acrow supplied a broad range of equipment.
48 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT CONTINUED 80% OF AFFECTED FLEET IS ALREADY TIER 4 We seek to minimise our environmental impact in everything we Greenhouse gas emissions do, through: As we are a growing business with aggressive expansion plans, our absolute greenhouse gas GHG emissions will necessarily thorough evaluation of new stores and acquisitions to ensure increase.
However, we continue to evaluate how best we can limit they meet our environmental standards and do not pose an that increase and mitigate the impact.
unacceptable risk to the business: improved safety environmental audit tracking software Our Scope 1 fuel combustion and operation of facilities and 2 and database: purchased electricity GHG emissions are reported below.
We improved environmental information database increasing have opted not to report Scope 3 emissions due to the difficulty in efficiency in addressing permits and various requirements: gathering accurate and reliable information.
The majority of these carbon, waste and other environmental KPIs captured arise through our customers use of our equipment on their sites and reported: and projects.
increased inventory of Tier 4 engines and training of key staff on their impact and maintenance: GHG EMISSION BY GHG PROTOCOL SCOPE tCO e YEAR 2 national non-exclusive agreements for emergency response and waste disposal in the US: 2016 2015 providing lists of required and recommended equipment to new Scope 1 198,769 188,514 store openings for spill prevention and clean-up supplies: Scope 2 38,236 33,674 the use of telematics to monitor vehicle idling and driving efficiency: Total 237,005 222,188 optimisation of delivery routes via our efficiency programme: tCO2e year defined as tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year.
the use of tyre pressure monitors to ensure optimal fuel efficiency: increased fuel efficiency in delivery and service fleet, including In order to calculate the GHG emissions, we have used the GHG through improved design: Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised providing environmental education reminders to field and edition, together with emission factors from the UK governments service personnel through TechConnect newsletter delivered GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2015, as well as to their homes in the US: and the US Environmental Protection Agency.
the use of environmentally and ozone-friendly refrigerants in our cooling equipment.
In the UK, we collect data from all Scope 1 and 2 vendors and hence, there is no estimation involved.
In the US, due to the size of our operation, we collect data from the significant vendors and then use this to estimate emissions attributable to the balance.
At April 2016, approximately 10% of the Sunbelt emissions balance was estimated.
FROM CAPITAL TO COAST The legendary London to Brighton Bike Ride took place in June and an Ashtead and A-Plant contingent rode the gruelling 54 miles from capital to coast to raise money for the British Heart Foundation.
A total of 23 cyclists took part, including work colleagues, friends and customers.
The fundraising target for the British Heart Foundation was initially 2,000 but we were delighted to raise over 3,000.
STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 49 We are also required to give an intensity ratio as appropriate for our More and more of our customers are demanding eco-friendly business.
Our level of GHG emissions varies with our activity levels equipment such as power and hydraulic oil-free platforms, or the and we have concluded that the most appropriate intensity ratio utilisation of bi-fuel on larger equipment, so the investment offers for Ashtead is revenue intensity.
Our intensity metric is therefore our customers a wider range of access solutions.
an indication of emissions per 1m of revenue tCO2e m. 2016 2015 Revenue intensity ratio 93.1 109.0 GEOFF DRABBLE SUZANNE WOOD Chief executive Finance director The majority of our revenue is in dollars and so the reported ratio is 13 June 2016 affected by the exchange rate.
On a constant currency basis using this years average exchange rate our intensity ratio has reduced from 103.4 last year to 93.1 this year.
Greener equipment Whenever we can and where it makes economic sense, we invest in greener equipment, sometimes also driven by customer demand.
In addition to the Tier 4 engine requirements in the US, where we can, we purchase other more environmentally efficient equipment for a wide range of different applications.
In terms of our US rental fleet, approximately 65% of our fleet is affected by Tier 4 regulations and over 80% of it is already Tier 4.
In the UK, A-Plant has continued its significant investment in eco-friendly access equipment by taking delivery of a further 300 powered access and low level access machines manufactured by Power Towers and Niftylift, the majority of which are specifically designed to offer an environmentally friendly solution to working at height.
The majority of these, with no battery, power or oil, are both environmentally friendly and with a small footprint, are able to be used in confined spaces.
The machines, several of which are also relatively light weight provide a mechanical solution that doesnt involve erecting, unfolding or climbing.
Some also come with a bi-fuel option.
EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT: DAVE SMITH AND JESSE BEAUSOLEIL In September 2015, Dave Smith, power generation market manager, and Jesse Beausoleil, shop foreman, travelled to the Zapaca region of Guatemala with a team of volunteers.
They spent a week doing mechanical, carpentry and humanitarian work at the campus of non-profit community support organisation, Hope of Life International.
Previous supporters had built a vocational school on the campus, where locals could get low or no-cost training in skills similar to Sunbelt technicians, but they left the finishing tasks undone.
First Dave, Jesse and the team worked alongside the staff to get the school building ready.
Then they repaired three generators, inspected and tested two three-ton air conditioners, and put together two functioning commercial convection ovens from four broken ones.
They ran conduit and a new electrical feed from the sub panels at the hospital to the kitchen that supports it, and charged and repaired a ductless air conditioner at the childrens home.
A donation from Sunbelt also allowed additional supplies to be acquired for the projects and the team donated all the tools they purchased and used, including skill saws, cordless tools, electrical connectors, gauges, extension cords, squares, drills, bits and much more to Hope of Life.
50 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT 52 Our Board of directors 54 Corporate governance report 59 Audit Committee report 62 Nomination Committee report 63 Remuneration report 83 Other statutory disclosures 85 S tatement of directors responsibilities FROM: A ONE-OFF COOLING EMERGENCY 2 SPOT COOLERS DELIVERED WITHIN ONE HOUR DIRECTORS REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 51 TO: FULL-TIME SUPPORT COMPETENCY We pride ourselves on being able to respond 24 7 to any scenario, whether that be highly localised ON-SITE MOBILE STORE emergency cooling or long-term planning and project management, with almost all our product range utilised.
A shop needed rapid delivery of air conditioning units to enable customers to keep shopping through a heatwave.
An 18-month casino construction project in Washington needed continuous quick responses to changing project needs and round-the-clock service and support.
