Corporate social responsibility Combining ethical investing with sound business practice Ashmore recognises the importance of Business conduct and integrity Ashmores funds and segregated accounts Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Ashmore believes that its reputation as an each have a specific investment mandate which sets out the parameters for investment.
incorporating transparency, fairness, ethical, trustworthy provider of investment Within the Equities and Corporate Debt accountability and integrity and believes services is essential to align clients and themes, Ashmore is able toscreen client thatthese principles are fundamental shareholders interests.
Ashmore seeks portfolios to meet client requirements totheGroups operations.
toestablish and maintain long-term for geographic, sector and stock specific relationships with its clients and The Group continues to monitor best restrictions.
Stock specific restrictions intermediaries and believes this to be a practicedevelopments in all relevant areas may include securities which meet clients fundamental prerequisite for the growth ofCSR, including its approach to investing, own criteria.
community programmes, employees, and environmental management.
Ashmores CSR Examples of investment areas where Responsible investing programme and initiatives are designed to screening of portfolios can be offered based acrossAshmoresthemes berelevant to the nature and scale of its on or informed by client requirements Socially Responsible Investment SRI business and to protect and reinforce the using recognised investment industry isaform of investing that screens out Groups reputation and integrity.
Ashmore identifiers and coding into Ashmores investments in certain stocks or industries intends to build upon these firm foundations portfolio management system include inline with defined ethical guidelines.
alcohol, animal food products, armaments Ashmore aims to ensure that the manufacturers or dealers, gambling, Consistent with the various philosophies governancebodies of the investments pornography and tobacco.
explained herein, Ashmore is a signatory itmakes comply with their own industry ofthe UN Principles for Responsible standards and best practice, treat their Ashmore seeks to comply at all times Investment UNPRI.
employees fairly, have active community with all sanctions imposed by applicable programmes and operate with sensitivity government authorities, and also screens Investment approach tothe environment.
Ashmore has made at a geographical level across all investment Ashmores Investment Committees investments in a number of renewable themes for countries which are on the processes ensure a consistent approach to energy projects in different countries United Nations and EU UK Sanctions and all investments within its clients portfolios.
including hydro-electricity, geothermal the US Office of Foreign Assets and Control Ashmores experience in managing energyand sugar-based ethanol production.
OFAC lists, for example during the Russia investments within the Emerging Markets Investments have also been made in a Ukraine crisis.
has enabled it to experience first-hand Chinese company which manufactures theadvantages of qualitatively evaluating windturbines with both local and growing environmental, social and governance factors global supplies.
These investments on behalf and incorporating them within its portfolios.
of clients reflect Ashmores overall approach Ashmore believes that there are many to combining ethical investing with sound potential asset classes in emerging countries business practice.
as well as many different risk return profiles Amongst the initiatives undertaken in which it will be able to offer its clients in SouthAmerica is the establishment of thefuture.
As capital markets grow rapidly anEnvironmental and Social Management inEmerging Markets Ashmore aims to System ESMS for the management of participate in that growth, enabling access investments of an investor fund in Colombia tothese markets by both developed world within the alternatives investment theme.
pools of capital and also, increasingly, by This fund has been developed in a form and Emerging Markets pools of capital.
substance acceptable to the Inter-American Development Bank IDB and International Finance Corporation IFC.
In 2014 Ashmore Colombia won the Colombian Association forPrivate Equity award for best corporate governance, as voted for by investors.
38 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report The stakeholders in a company encompass As a global investor, Ashmore recognises Environmental, Social and employees, local communities, wider that legislation and best practice standards Governance ESG approach society, governments, supply chains, vary between countries and regions, and The evaluation of ESG risk is an integral customers and the natural environment.
that it must remain sensitive to these part of Ashmores investment processes.
There are a wide range of ESG issues which differences.
However, at a minimum, Ashmore integrates ESG factors into could be relevant for a company depending Ashmore expects the companies in which fundamental analysis across its liquid on the industry in which it operates and it invests to comply with the national investment themes and scores them to its specific business profile.
ESG issues legislation that applies to them.
the extent they are deemed material to can become new sources of risk or Fixed income investment returns.
opportunities for companies, and a Ashmores fixed income themes consist companys ability to respond to these Listed equities of investments in Corporate and Sovereign issues can therefore act as an early signal ESG criteria tend to be focused primarily Debt issuances.
ESG within fixed income of long-term competitiveness.
To the extent on equity investing because of the influence is fundamentally a risk management practicable, Ashmore routinely monitors the which shareholder interests are able to exert consideration.
Within the Emerging Markets ESG performance of the companies in which on the management of a particular company.
fixed income space, the Governance it invests through on-going company visits Ashmore believes that the way in which aspect of ESG is best reflected in the political and other information channels.
In addition, companies manage ESG factors can have landscape.
Ashmores Investment companies often disclose corporate an impact on business performance and Committee meetings start off with a macro governance practices through corporate valuation, and should be incorporated into discussion and then move to the individual policies, stock market listings, and market investment decisions.
This review of individual emerging press releases for example, Brazil has a countries starts with a focus on what the Ashmores top down allocation model separate category for companies committed likely effects of the external macro factors are evaluates country metrics relative to history to corporate governance best practice.
on market behaviour and in turn, asset prices.
Hence, the risk Companies may also disclose environmental The team analyses and discusses the ability premium imputed by the market to a and social practices in annual reports and the financial position of a country and the given country is captured.
Risk premiums other reports to investors.
These are then willingness more qualitative focusing on the incorporate sovereign corporate governance highlighted, as appropriate, in Investment incentives of the policy-makers in-country concerns, as for example in Russia where Committee reports.
of countries to service their sovereign debt.
stock valuations are historically amongst the ESG metrics are used to measure, analyse, Ability to pay is analysed looking at classic lowest globally due to relatively higher risk and rank securities.
Assessments at the indicators of credit-worthiness and debt premiums.
Any changes in risk premiums stock level tend to be qualitative and based sustainability analysis.
This involves analysis relative to history are analysed to determine on company public disclosures, interviews of the local fiscal position, currency, interest if justified.
To make this more explicit and or company visits which are made to rates and trade data.
Currency and interest Ashmore reviews ESG rankings of countries each company held in portfolios.
In addition, rate exposures within individual countries within its mandate using third party data Ashmore gathers information from market are explicitly evaluated and fundamentals such sources.
The scoring and ranking is based related channels, such as suppliers and as growth prospects, balance of payments on ESG principles as rated by World Bank, clients.
These assessments are then factored dynamics, credit-worthiness, the likely US Energy Information Administration, into the valuation and profitability metrics, effect of commodity price movements, local Heritage Foundation and Economist which are evaluated relative to history, politics, economic data and local and external Intelligence Unit.
Ashmore also evaluates country and industry comparators.
investor sentiment are analysed thoroughly.
country exposures weekly at its Investment Committee meetings, and considers country risks in the review channels.
Gender diversity Number of employees 1 2 85 Operating committee Board All employees Senior Managers 181 7 10 Male Female Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 Corporate social responsibility continued Willingness to pay is more subjective and The majority of Ashmores assets under Alternatives can change quickly subject to the vagaries management continue to be invested in fixed Ashmores Alternatives investment theme of the political cycle and the political income the majority of which is sovereign often involves its funds taking significant response to economic events.
Ashmore for which Ashmores ability to have an stakes in investee companies.
In such places emphasis on the factors that affect influence is generally limited to a decision circumstances Ashmore is in a position a governments willingness to pay and whether or not to invest.
However, at a to engage with the management of these relies on scenario-analysis to determine the country level, Ashmore believes that it is able companies.
In many cases, Ashmore risks and opportunities presented by these to exert an influence through dialogue with believes it to be beneficial to its investors governments assets.
Finally, the technical governments and central banks.
In order to to be active in promoting its brand locally by factors affecting asset prices in various assist with the debate on the broader issues improving the livelihoods of the employees markets are important considerations leading affecting Emerging Markets, to enhance the in those companies where it has a significant to investment decisions.
Ashmore speaks understanding of these markets globally and stake.
When undertaking initial due diligence regularly with appointed policy makers to to address market failures, Ashmore engages on any investments within the Alternatives glean their views on significant events, such with numerous international public sector theme, Ashmores deal memorandum as local elections, as well as to try to gauge financial institutions with the objective of checklist takes into account the consideration their bias towards populist agendas which aiding transparency and best practice.
of ESG issues within the investment analysis may impact ESG factors.
Engagement with a country, as opposed and decision making process, and the to disengagement, is akin to many small investee companys own ESG practices.
Ashmore formalises country credit and pressures every day as opposed to one ESG considerations at least quarterly, in Engagement big stick.
By remaining engaged over an conversations between various members Engagement is a fundamental part of extended period of time it is often possible of the Investment team and the Head of Ashmores ESG approach.
to have a positive influence and to add Research.
In addition, the Investment credibility.
Ashmore is also mindful of the Within mature markets, ethical investing has Committee will consider the assessment potential impact that the abuse of power often been portrayed as a negative concept for each country on an ad-hoc basis as it and corruption by governments in certain i. e. it involves a decision not to invest in a discusses country visit reports from portfolio countries can have on its reputation and certain way.
Whilst these concepts are well managers returning from research trips, or the interests of its clients and continuously accepted in mature markets Ashmore believes when discussing significant events such monitors, and takes into account such factors.
that they are not necessarily conducive to as elections.
Therefore, credit and ESG helping emerging economies develop.
In the analysis are an integral part of Ashmores Where Emerging Markets are concerned context of developing countries Ashmore investment process for publicly traded therefore, it is believed that in certain believes that it is also possible to apply other fixed income securities.
circumstances, it may be more beneficial concepts such as engagement within the to keep investment flowing combined with Ashmores quantitative scorecard is a ethical investment debate.
the influence which accompanies it in order derivation of its Risk models and assesses to continue being able to help a countrys In the Equities theme Ashmore believes that 10 economic and ESG risk factors for Impact population.
In country specific terms at the good corporate governance helps to align low, moderate, high, or 1, 2, 3 and Probability extreme, being cut off from capital may allow the interests of company management with low, moderate, high or 1, 2, 3.
The score of undemocratic rulers to control their people by those of its shareholders.
Where possible, each factor would be Impact x Probability, attributing blame for economic problems to Ashmore seeks to maintain constructive with six possible outcomes: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 9. foreign actions.
Sanctions may be counterdialogue with company management.
Adding the scores of all ten factors gives a productive and may reduce the welfare of country risk score that incorporates both Ashmore considers whether companies have the population considerably.
Conversely, to credit risk and ESG risk.
The theoretical corporate governance frameworks that are in the extent that governments pursue policies minimum and maximum risk scores are thus line with applicable country codes and serve that are not in the best interests of that 10 and 90 respectively, while the median shareholder interests.
Views on corporate country, then this is likely to become a is 30 and the average is 40.
These metrics governance do not constrain investment poor investment proposition.
Hence are reviewed against yields and spreads to decisions however: often the most profitable Ashmore takes investment and engagement determine if an appropriate risk premium has investments can be made in companies disengagement decisions on a case by case been built into Ashmores scenario analyses.
where an improvement in corporate basis, relative to the specific circumstances governance practices is anticipated.
In many Within Emerging Markets fixed income and investment criteria in the best interests jurisdictions, and to the extent consistent segregated accounts, Ashmore also offers of clients.
with Ashmores fiduciary duty to its clients, clients the flexibility to implement their Ashmore exercises voting rights as a means Ashmore does not always evaluate ESG constraints related to specific countries, to signal views to company management.
quantitative variables in its assessment of sectors and securities for example, restricted Ashmore has developed detailed guidelines country risk but will also examine qualitative lists, concentration limits etc.. to guide voting decisions, but will, as factors such as the relationship between appropriate, consider resolutions on a politics and economics and their interaction.
case-by-case basis taking into account Ashmore has always sought to develop all available information.
40 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report networks locally in order to adopt a better Employees Disability Policy quality of forward looking decision making Ashmore directly employs approximately 270 Ashmore will: in this area and to promote an understanding people in 11 countries worldwide, excluding give full and fair consideration to of local cultures and politics.
employees in companies significantly applications for employment by disabled controlled by funds that Ashmore manages.
persons, having regard to their particular Proxy voting and corporate actions Ashmores people have always been its most aptitudes and abilities: Subject to specific mandate restrictions, important asset, at the heart of everything Ashmore is generally responsible for voting continue the employment of, and arrange it does.
The Groups priority is to attract, proxies and taking decisions in connection appropriate training for those who have develop, manage and retain this talent with proxy voting with respect to equities, become disabled when employed by the in order to deliver the potential of the bonds, loans or other debt instruments held company, and: organisation.
Ashmore wishes to be an by or on behalf of the clients for which it provide equal opportunity for disabled employer which the most talented people serves as investment manager adviser.
employees in terms of training, career aspire to join wherever it operates.
Where Ashmore is given responsibility for Ashmore recognises that the involvement proxy voting and corporate actions, it will take High ethical standards of its employees is key to the future success reasonable steps under the circumstances Ashmores Board of Directors seeks of the business and adopts a practice of to ensure that proxies are voted in the best to maintain a strong corporate culture keeping employees informed on significant interests of its clients.
Protecting the financial employing high standards of integrity and matters affecting them, via email and in interests of its clients is the primary fair dealing in the conduct of the firms meetings arranged for the purpose.
Ashmore consideration for Ashmore in determining activities, compliance with both the letter has consistently operated a remuneration how to protect such interests.
This generally and the spirit of relevant laws and strategy that recognises both corporate means proxy voting with a view to enhancing regulations, and standards of good market and individual performance.
Ashmore is the value of the securities held by or on practice in all jurisdictions where the Groups also committed to following good practice behalf of Ashmores clients, taken either business is carried out.
The Boards aim is to in employment matters, recognising the part individually or as a whole.
enable Ashmore to demonstrate that the this plays in attracting and retaining staff.
Group is fit and proper to undertake its UK Stewardship Code Ashmore seeks to ensure that its workforce business, to safeguard the legitimate Details on how, and the extent to which, reflects, as far as practicable, the diversity interests of Ashmore clients and protect Ashmore complies with the principles of of the many communities in which its Ashmores reputation.
the UK Stewardship Code are described operations are located.
Ashmore also 2012 2013 separately on t 2 he 0A1shmore w 4 2 ebsite at0 1 5 2016 Employee development recognises the diverse needs of its employees 40 91 51 96 52 91 63 88 64 86 www.
Ashmore believes that constructive 217 166 240 195 239 200 222 197 202 180 in managing the responsibilities of their performance management is an essential work and personal lives, and believes that Year end headcount tool in the effective management of its achieving an effective balance in these areas people and business.
Ashmore ensures all is beneficial to both Ashmore and the employees are competent to undertake their 266 individual.
Ashmore encourages employees roles, have access to training as it is required, to act ethically and to uphold clearly the 2015: 285 and can demonstrate their continuing standards of practice which its clients have professional development.
It also means ensuring that employees understand the strategic aims The performance management cycle and objectives of the Group and are clear comprises setting objectives and an annual about their role in achieving them.
performance appraisal against those agreed objectives.
Output from this performance Ashmore works to ensure employee policies process is used to assist with decisions and procedures reflect best practice within on remuneration, career development each of the countries where it has a and progression.
This means having policies and practices that make Ashmore an attractive Diversity place to work in respect of the day to day 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Ashmore is committed to providing equal operating environment and culture, and also opportunities and seeks to ensure that its Global in respect of medium to long term growth workforce reflects, as far as is practicable, Local for employees, personally, professionally the diversity of the many communities in Support and financially.
Ashmore employs over Investment professionals 32 different nationalities throughout the organisation.
The gender balance is currently 68% 181 people male and 32% 85 people female.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41 40 217 91 166 51 240 96 195 52 239 91 200 63 222 88 197 64 202 180 86 Corporate social responsibility continued Health and safety Environment Recycling The health and welfare of employees is very As a company whose business is Ashmore has in place recycling programmes important to the Group.
fundamentally based on intellectual capital for waste paper, photocopier toners and and does not own its business premises, other disposable materials.
Ashmore seeks Ashmore promotes high standards of health Ashmore has a limited direct impact on to minimise the use of paper as part of its and safety at work and has a comprehensive the environment and there are few clear desk policy and electronic scanning is health and safety policy which highlights the environmental risks associated with the actively encouraged.
All printing is two-sided Groups commitment to ensuring employees Groups activities.
are provided with a safe and healthy working recognises that it has a responsibility to environment.
In London Ashmore carries out Ashmore is conscious of minimising its manage this as effectively as possible.
regular risk assessments of premises and impact on the environment.
For this reason, The Group continues to promote energy provides staff with safety training including wherever possible Ashmore chooses paper efficiency and the avoidance of waste the provision of training to fire wardens stocks that have been sustainably sourced throughout its operations and a number and first aid representatives.
Ashmore also and which are Forest Stewardship Council of initiatives, such as the recycling of engages external consultants to carry out FSC accredited or equivalent for its paper, glass and other waste and the regular health and safety and fire marketing materials and business stationery.
use of green energy, are encouraged.
assessments in its London premises.
Greenhouse gas Ashmore does not own any of the buildings There have been no reportable accidents emissionsreporting where it occupies floor space and invariably in the UK or overseas premises.
Further details on Greenhouse gas emissions buildings in which it does have a lease are GHGs can be found in the Directors report.
Taxation multi-tenanted and costs are apportioned to Ashmore is committed to paying tax in each tenant pro-rated according to occupancy.
Energy Savings Opportunity accordance with all relevant laws and Scheme ESOS Ashmores largest property occupancy regulations and complying with all fiscal Ashmore has confirmed its compliance with is at its headquarters at 61 Aldwych, obligations in the territories in which it the ESOS obligations to the Environment London where it occupies a single floor operates.
To facilitate this, the Group works Agency in respect to the reporting period of approximately 19,000 square feet in a to create and maintain transparent and open ending on 5 December 2015. nine storey multi-tenanted building.
Electricity working relationships with all relevant tax usage in London is separately monitored by Ashmore provides authorities.
Ashmore aims to maximise value floor and energy efficient lighting is installed obsolescentcomputers to for its shareholders and clients by managing in the building with sensors which turn lights Computer Aid International its business in a tax efficient and transparent off when no movement is detected.
The Computer Aid is a UK registered charity that manner, within the remit of the applicable building has received an Energy Performance aims to reduce poverty through practical ICT tax rules.
Certificate with an Asset Rating of 98. solutions.
Computer Aid sends these PCs Human rights tovarious projects across Africa and South Travel Ashmore supports the United Nations America and furnishes Ashmore with details Although Ashmore endeavours to make Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Any units that maximum use of available technology, such arenot usable are disposed of in an as video conferencing, its business model as environmentally friendly fashion.
an investor in Emerging Markets inevitably requires that investment professionals and other members of staff travel frequently to these countries to investigate and monitor opportunities.
42 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Community Investment: Making a positive difference In New York, a team of seven Ashmore Over the last year over 100 Ashmore 2015-16 HIGHLIGHTS staff volunteered at the Bed-Stuy Campaign employees have actively supported the New York team spend day helping Against Food Hunger Pantry.
The team Foundation, through fundraising, volunteering customers at a local food bank assisted the staff with unloading food items, time to support the Foundation to meet its London employees hold five shelf stacking and assisting clients in the strategic objectives or mentoring NGO fundraising events in aid of the centre.
In London, Ashmore continues to partners and their beneficiaries.
Ashmore Foundation develop its relationship with local charity Over the year, Ashmore employees Resurgo to develop the volunteering Five new trustees, new Chairperson organised a range of events from wine programme piloted in Spring 2015.
Employees appointed and Investment tastings to cake bakes to raise funds for are also encouraged to deposit unused foreign Committee established the Foundation.
In 2016, the Ashmore coins, the proceeds of which are donated to Six new grants partnerships Foundation secured its first ever place the Alzheimers Society.
Ashmore continues to established in Colombia, India, in the London Marathon.
Team Ashmore support local charities with gifts in kind.
The Indonesia and Turkey totalling came out in full to support their colleague London team came together to donate over US$600,000 who completed the marathon in 3 hours 26 clothes, including suits, to The Connection, minutes and raised almost 10,000.
Three organisations funded to support a London-based homeless charity.
Syrian refugees in Turkey Community Ashmores approach to community investment represents a commitment to building relationships and having a positive impact on the communities where Ashmore operates and invests.
At the heart of this approach is the Ashmore Foundation.
The Ashmore Foundation makes a sustainable The Ashmore Foundation impact to disadvantaged communities where Investing locally in Emerging Ashmore invests.
However, it is recognised Markets communities that Ashmore can also have a positive impact The Ashmore Foundation was established in on the communities where it operates and January 2008 and seeks to make a positive is committed to creating lasting benefits and sustainable difference to disadvantaged in those locations where Ashmore has a communities in the Emerging Markets presence.
Ashmore employees across all communities in which Ashmore operates and offices and subsidiaries are encouraged to The Ashmore Foundations focus of work invests.
To achieve this goal, the Ashmore engage with and support local community is designed in response to the fact that, Foundation aims to develop long-term projects.
This commitment is reflected in despite economic growth in Emerging relationships with locally based nonAshmores policy enabling employees to Markets, disadvantaged communities in many government organisations NGOs.
takeone day annually to support charitable countries remain affected by poverty and lack The Ashmore Foundation is staffed by a full projects.
During the last year, Ashmore access to basic services and opportunities time Director who is responsible for managing employees have taken part in a range of that are basic rights and could greatly improve the Foundations affairs.
The board of trustees activities, while many have been in support their life situations.
Moreover, a thriving civil consists of nine Ashmore employees as well of the Ashmore Foundation.
Staff are keen sector is essential to democratic development as one independent trustee.
In addition to the to support communities in their local vicinity.
in nascent and emerging nations.
board of trustees Ashmore employees engage in the governance of the Foundation through The Foundation seeks to develop long-term sub-committees to support fundraising, grant partnerships with civil society organisations making, volunteering and communications.
and does not accept unsolicited applications, Ashmore also supports the Foundations preferring to seek appropriate partnerships charitable activities through the provision of proactively.
Civil society organisations typically pro-bono office space, administrative support receive between US$20,000 and US$50,000 and a matched funding commitment for per year over a two to three year period.
employee donations to the Ashmore Foundation.
The Ashmore Foundation currently has four The Ashmore Foundation is supported solely priority countries Colombia, India, Indonesia, by Ashmore and its employees globally.
and Turkey based on the location of Ashmore Crucially, this support from employees extends offices, and the existence of a strong civil beyond financial aid to active engagement in sector and clear social needs on which the fundraising, as well as a network of support Ashmore Foundation can focus.
Supporting which includes mentoring and helping NGOs locally based NGOs in Emerging Markets expand their network of contacts.
reflects Ashmores desire to give back to Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 Corporate social responsibility continued Y A Y ASAN TORAJAMELO the countries that have contributed to its profitability, supporting empowerment and Supported since 2015 | Total funding: US$60,000 | Location: West Sulawesi, Indonesia local capacity in Emerging Markets.
In 2015 the Ashmore Foundation entered into its first grant partnership with Torajamelo.
Following a review of its funding priorities The organisation was founded with the mission to preserve the culture of the Toraja people in 2014, the Ashmore Foundation focuses and improve the income of women weavers.
The preference for cheap modern clothing its support on programmes that aim to equip has led to the production of woven fabric diminishing thus decimating the livelihoods people with the skills and resources they and leaving women at great social disadvantage.
need to generate an income that will enable Torajamelo will take the learning from their work with the Toraja people and replicate them to meet their basic needs and that of with women in Mamasa.
In partnership with local women they document the traditional their families and will also support economic weaving practices and motifs used.
Together with the women they teach younger women growth and begin to address broader societal traditional techniques as well as the demand amongst modern consumers.
This may range from literacy the women to develop a modern product range from the textiles which are then sold and numeracy to vocational training, life national and internationally.
and leadership skills or small and medium enterprise support and development.
In partnership with other civil society actors they run community development programmes.
They form savings and loans cooperatives through which the women learn about their All proposals to the Ashmore Foundation rights and how to access them in their community.
The weavers are taught how to undergo a rigorous assessment which is manage a cooperative, financial management and given leadership skills.
designed to review not only the proposed activities but the organisation as a whole taking into consideration day to day management, governance, objectives and outcomes, resources and accountability.
The level and depth of due diligence is proportionate to the size of the grant under consideration.
Since its inception in 2008, the Ashmore Foundation has developed strategic partnerships with a number of civil society organisations, below are case studies from two organisations that the Foundation is FOUNDATION FOR THE SUPPORT OF WOMENS WORK currently supporting.
Supported since 2013 | Total funding: US$158,224 | Location: Istanbul, Turkey In 2015 the Ashmore Foundation renewed its partnership with the Foundation for the Support of Womens Work FSWW.
The organisation was founded in 1986 to support the improvement in the lives of and economic situation of lowcome women in Turkey.
In 2002 FSWW established MAYA, a microfinancing institution to support women entrepreneurs with business development, financial management, microloans, mentoring, networking and market access.
In addition to the main partnership grants Through their renewed partnership with the Ashmore Foundation they are extending programme, the Ashmore Foundation access to the Maya programme for 1,000 low income women in Eskiehir and Kocaeli.
supports those communities in Emerging Women that successfully apply into the programme will be supported to set up or expand Market countries that have been affected their businesses.
Through workshops and peer group discussion they will better understand by natural disaster.
Over the last year, the issues around inequality, enabling them to exercise their rights at both the household and Foundation supported civil society societal level, ultimately improving opportunities for themselves and for their children.
organisations responding to the migrant crisis in Turkey.
Over the last year the Foundation has been able to support three Turkish civil society organisations that are working with the vulnerable Syrian refugees to provide them with access to training and services to enable to them to begin the process of rebuilding their lives.
org 44 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016
