36 RETAIL Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report operating review 37 ALWAYS ON TREND About Retail onthehigh streets of the UK and Primark is one of the largest clothing Ireland, and more recently on the retailers in Europe.
It has 315 stores high streetsand in the shopping and employs 68,000 people in the UK, centres ofcontinental Europe and Republic of Ireland, Spain, Portugal, the USA.
2006saw Primarks first Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, foray into continental Europe with the Austria, France, Italy and the USA.
opening ofa store in Madrid and it Itwas founded in June 1969 in the now operates from over 12 million sq ft Republic of Ireland where it continues ofselling space across 11 countries.
With a unique combination of the Primarks organic growth has been latestfashion and lean operations, achieved through a combination of Primark offers customers quality, like-for-like growth and increasing up-to-the-minute designs at selling space.
Buying growthreflects investment in buying, andmerchandising teams travel merchandising and our success internationally to source and inconstantly refreshing the stores to buy garments that best reflect ensure they remain exciting places each seasons key fashion trends.
The increase in selling space Primarks range includes womenswear, has been driven by capital investment lingerie, childrenswear, menswear, in freehold and leasehold properties footwear, accessories, hosiery asthey have become available, first and homeware.
A WINNING BLEND WORN IN THE USA Primarks successful entry into OF STYLE AND thenorth east of the USA followed FUNCTIONALITY twoyears of painstaking planning andresearch.
With the increasing trend for looking fashionable while working out, Primarkresponds with a range of 41 athleisure wear.
PHENOMENAL GROWTH In a global beauty market worth over 290bn, Primarks PS Beauty is firmly making its mark.
39 40 Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 38 RETAIL iscurrently uncertain but Primark is committed to leading thevalue sector OFFERING CUSTOMERS QUALITY, ofthe market with itson-trend product offering and maintenance of its price UP-TO-THE-MINUTE FASHION AT leadership position in clothing.
In the US, awareness of the Primark VALUE-FOR-MONEY PRICES brand started at a low level and has continued to grow.
The brand has beenwell received with very positive Revenue Adjusted operating profit margin customer feedback, particularly for itsexceptional value-for-money and thebreadth of its product range.
We 5,949m 11.6% areencouraged by the most recent openingsin the regional malls at Danbury, 2015: 5,347m 2015: 12.6% Willow Grove and Freehold Raceway.
Actual fx: 11% Constant fx: 9% Adjusted operating profit Return on average capital employed NEW STORE OPENINGS UK Banbury 689m 30.2% Birmingham Fort Broughton Park, Chester 2015: 673m 2015: 31.1% Fort Kinnaird Actual fx: 2% Fosse Park, Leicester Constant fx: 1% Lancaster Monks Cross, York Spain Gran Via, Madrid Portugal Almada Forum, Lisbon France Sales at Primark were 9% ahead of The operating profit margin reduced from Cagnes-sur-Mer lastyear at constant currency driven 12.6% to 11.6% driven by the devaluation La Valette-du-Var by a weighted average increase in of the euro against the US dollar early in Lyon selling space of 9% with a much calendar 2015.
Primark buys a substantial higher proportion of this years proportion of its garments in US dollars Italy newstore openings being in the and sells them in euros and sterling and is Arese second half.
therefore subject to transactional currency exposures.
Forward currency contracts Germany Revenue benefited by two percentage are taken out to cover these exposures Leipzig points from the 53rd week this year.
when orders are placed and as a Unseasonable weather and cautious consequence last years results were The Netherlands consumer sentiment led to value declines largely unaffected by this devaluation Alkmaar in the clothing retail sector in some of and the impact was felt throughout this Dordrecht ourimportant markets, particularly the financial year.
A large part of the gross Groningen UK and Germany.
Warm weather in the impact was mitigated by a good buying Austria pre-Christmas period was followed by performance and also a lower level Linz avery cold March and April.
Like-for-like ofmark-downs as a result of tight sales were 2% negative overall.
USA like-for-like performance was in line with Danbury, Connecticut this but Ireland delivered a strong sales Sterlings weakening against the US dollar, Freehold Raceway, New Jersey performance throughout the year, Spain, particularly following the EU referendum, King of Prussia, Philadelphia France and Austria traded well and the had little transactional impact on Primarks Willow Grove, Philadelphia Netherlands and Germany were less margins in this financial year.
However, affected by cannibalisation as the year at current exchange rates the effect will RELOCATIONS progressed.
Asaresult of the weakening be adverse in the new financial year.
UK of sterling, sales were 11% ahead when Thereaction of UK clothing retailers to Oxford translated at actual exchange rates.
this major movement in exchange rates Grimsby Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Building an international retailer Primark went from newcomer to Spanish market leader in just ten years, a template for growth that is now fuelling the brands continued expansion
