42 Our people We aim to attract the best people and continually develop their capabilities so that we can deliver outstanding solutions for our clients.
James Cullens Group HR director Overview At Atkins, our people give us our competitive edge.
We trust them to go above and beyond for the Group and our clients.
Their individual talent and our collective expertise help us to exceed client expectations and meet our strategic objectives.
We review our human resources metrics regularly and, as part of this process, we consider a range of measures, such as headcount, succession planning, retention rates and employee engagement.
We also review progress against both our Group and sector people strategies, ensuring we are able to forecast the future skills and resourcing needs to support our growth plans.
Alignment Involvement Overall engagement 2015 2015 68 69 69 2014: 68 2014 Norm 2014 Norm Norm: 59 66 59 69 62 Alignment is about how closely Involvement is about how involved an individuals objectives, values people feel with their job.
We and aspirations match those measure this through key questions of the Group.
around job satisfaction, motivation Loyalty and personal fulfillment.
2015 70 2014 Norm 69 57 Loyalty measures the emotional tie people have to the Group as a whole, i. e. how proud they feel, what their outlook is and how they would speak about the Group to others.
Figure 1: Viewpoint Group engagement results as provided by Ipsos MORI WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 A C T E C I S P I R F A O I E C E R M A U E Strategic Report Our people 43 Figure 2: International assignees by location ASSIGNEES BY LOCATION ASSIGNEES BY LOCA ASSIGNEES BY LOCA ASSIGNEES BY LOCA TIONTION TION NORTH AMERICA UK & EUROPE NORTH AMERICA NORTH AMERICA MIDDLE EAST NORTH AMERICA UK & EUROPE UK & EUROPE ASIA PA UK & EUROPE C MIDDLE EAST MIDDLE EAST MIDDLE EAST ASIA PAASIA P C AC ASIA PAC 18 116 1818 19718116116 69111691797 1976969 69 18 18 18 18 Areas where we have scope to improve Headcount Engagement further include our ability to retain our best Headcount reduced slightly in the year Ensuring our people feel valued and people and give them a clear career path.
This motivated at work underpins our ethos and primarily reflects the reductions in supports our strategy for growth.
We know The Group operational leadership team the Middle East and Asia Pacific to there is always room for improvement, will continue to use the survey outputs to improve productivity.
therefore, we ask our people to tell us what improve our employee engagement and they think and then involve them in our is committed to developing a set of clear We remain focused on attracting people plans for change.
actions each year to address the feedback.
into engineering careers and use a variety of platforms to encourage students Every year we ask our people around the Day to day we maintain regular including visits by our own graduates to world to participate in our Viewpoint communication with our employees school and university events.
We hired over employee engagement survey.
This survey through a range of digital media, with 400 graduates in September 2015 globally comprises a series of strategically important content relating to our client wins, project and will be targeting a similar number themed questions, aligned to a pre-defined successes, thought leadership and stories for our 2016 17 intake.
Our apprentice engagement model which measures our about our people all available on our programme continues to attract school peoples relationship with management intranet.
We supplement online channels leavers choosing a career in engineering.
and how they feel about their jobs and with face to face town hall meetings and Further details are provided in the UK and the Group.
To coincide Europe business review page 22.
Our with the announcement of our financial Group results are communicated within Group wide careers website gives our results, we provide updates on our Group our businesses and via our Group wide people easy access to all our vacancies performance via webinar for senior intranet to ensure our people understand throughout the world and helps to management and video for all colleagues.
the key feedback themes and are confident encourage internal mobility.
that actions will be taken as a result of Our senior leadership teams hold meetings As well as developing our talent pool in the survey.
and open discussions to give employees local markets, we have an experienced the opportunity to ask questions about Our 2015 survey included 80 questions and team of people working on planned our strategy and future plans.
We also use was completed by 76% of our people.
Our international assignments across the Group, webinars and all hands calls to engage overall engagement score was 69% a either to supplement skills not available with our people and give them the chance good result, an improvement over the prior locally by bringing specific technical to participate and ask questions directly.
year and 10 points higher than the global knowledge to bear or to help resource norm for organisations in the professional the delivery of larger projects.
We have Another popular communication channel is services sector.
focused on building a mobility pipeline of our CEO blogs, through which our regional, people who are keen to work in different Advisory, Energy and Faithful Gould CEOs Questions about carrying out work safely geographies so that we can match our share informal thoughts, images and updates.
remain among our top scoring areas, with available talent with appropriate vacancies 97% of people understanding how to around the world figure 2. work safely.
Greater collaboration, client proximity and technology are fundamental to our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, to win more work and to exceed client expectations.
It was therefore encouraging to see that this is another area of improvement.
It is also evident that people across Atkins continue to care about the success of our organisation 95%.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 A E L P D H A & D I T S K I R A M U O N STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 44 Our people continued public commitment to have at least 5% To inform the salary review and Investment in people of their UK workforce on formal graduate other reward decisions, we conduct Working with our clients and partners on and apprenticeship schemes.
Our current comprehensive annual benchmarking the delivery of complex solutions requires proportion is 12.3% 2015: 8.9% of studies across our regions.
We use the that we continually develop and enhance UK headcount.
data to improve the competitiveness of our the capabilities and performance of our remuneration packages and to help line people.
The Groups annual training We continue to engage with schools managers with pay decisions.
spend has been maintained at 22m and colleges to attract students into 2015:22m.
studying science, technology, engineering Approximately 1,100 senior leaders and mathematics STEM subjects and worldwide participate in our executive Our award winning My Career system, encourage them towards careers in bonus scheme.
We believe this incentivises automates the performance appraisal our industry.
the delivery of above average financial process across the Group.
We continue to results and exceptional individual develop and simplify the process to provide One of the key requirements of our growth performance by rewarding the achievement greater clarity of objectives, improve ambition is the ability of our people to get of stretching targets and personal visibility and tracking, and also strengthen close to our clients and to understand their objectives.
the link between performance review and drivers and requirements.
This has provided an improved sales excellence programme has continued A discretionary bonus scheme covers process for the targeting and delivery of to strengthen the capability of our people the wider Atkins population.
We expect training, at the same time allowing greater in these areas.
More than 370 staff to pay a bonus to around one third of access to online learning and tracking of attended programme modules during staff members, recognising individual learning and compliance training.
The identification, development and During the year, we also launched our deployment of key talent is a constant Figure 3: Viewpoint Group scores by global project management academy focus and during the year we piloted a gender as provided by Ipsos MORI aimed at providing a platform to new approach towards talent management continuously develop the capability of our through our My Career platform to 70 69 project managers across the Group.
More ensure that we are identifying potential than 5,300 courses have been completed 59 58 systematically.
This will be rolled out further through the academy during the year.
across the Group during the 2016 17 financial year.
Reward Pay movement across the Group varies by One of the key challenges for our industry sector and geography.
This reflects both is to develop the next generation of the diversity of our businesses and the engineers to solve the challenges of variability in market conditions between urbanisation, climate change and energy sectors.
With effect from 1 April 2016, generation.
This puts our graduate and the average salary increase was 2.4% apprenticeship programmes at the heart of across the Group.
Pay review budgets were developing our talent for the future.
During Female Male relatively conservative, to reflect market the year, in addition to our significant Global norm Global norm conditions and business performance.
graduate intake, we recruited a further 81 apprentices.
We are a member of the 5% Club, an industry-led campaign whose member organisations make a WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Our people 45 Employee share ownership is encouraged throughout an individuals employment.
A womens professional network is across the Group, to align the interests Our people are supported to develop to now well established in our major of our employees and our shareholders their full potential regardless of sex, race, office locations.
and to enable our employees to share in age, religion or belief, disability, sexual The gender balance of the senior the success of the Company.
In the UK, orientation, gender identity, marriage and management population increased we operate a share incentive plan SIP civil partner status, pregnancy, parental to 13.3% over the course of the year.
that provides a tax-efficient mechanism obligations or background, subject to the for employees to become shareholders laws of the jurisdictions in which we work.
As we continue to work to increase the through salary sacrifice arrangements.
proportion of female staff in Atkins, we The Group encourages recruitment, Approximately 12.5% of eligible employees have developed a range of flexible working training, career development and participate in the SIP.
options to help us both recruit and retain promotion on the basis of aptitude and a broader range of staff.
This is supported ability, without regard to disability.
Diversity and inclusion by our Viewpoint results, which showed We are committed to building a diverse We are also committed to retain and an improvement in the scores provided by organisation to maximise the skills available retrain, as necessary, employees who women in many areas.
to us in the regions in which we operate.
become disabled during the course of Policies have been adopted to ensure this their employment.
commitment is implemented from the point of attraction and recruitment and continues Figure 4: Gender split as at 31 March 2016 7 14 918 14,321 3 141 5,281 2 Board membership Senior leadership team Senior management Employees Female Female Female Female Male Male Male Male There were 10 members of the Two senior leadership team There were 1,059 senior Excluding our Group senior Board, seven were male and members were female.
managers including directors leadership team and senior three were female.
of subsidiary companies within management population, there the Group at Atkins.
Of this were 19,602 employees at number 918 were male and 141 Atkins of whom 14,321 were were female.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
