Corporate social responsibility Making a difference Our culture is shaped by our values of: determination, reliability, curiosity, inspiration and humility.
Throughout the organisation, these values manifest themselves in our fast-paced and highly customer-orientated approach, and in our commitment to being an exciting, innovative and digital-led company.
Overview Across the business, we are led by a sense of purpose and a set of principles that foster an environment of trust, within which challenge and debate are encouraged and talent is recognised and nurtured.
People are the Groups most valuable resource and the success of the Group is to the credit of all its employees: this helps drive one of our strategic priorities of building a digital culture that is values-driven, customerfocused and data-oriented.
Corporate social responsibility CSR at Auto Trader is driven by our values and culture and is focused on making a difference.
It comprises employee engagement, people development, health and safety, environmental impact, sustainability and energy efficient operations.
AutoTrader is a responsible employer and we are keen to give back to the local communities in which we operate, as well as supporting charities and causes that are close to our employees hearts.
The ways in which we wish to make a difference in our community are focused on four areas: employees individual charitable efforts, customer charitable causes, local charitable support and community engagement through education and business mentoring.
AutoTrader views these responsibilities as things that should be embedded in how we operate our business on a daily basis.
38 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our culture We have fostered a fast-paced culture that has innovation at its heart, driven by a committed leadership team that combines both digital experience with a long average tenure at the Group.
Values and value led Purpose and principles driven Driven by innovation Based on trust and Digital debate and data driven Our values By adhering to the Groups core values, we believe we are making a positive impact not only on our consumer audience and customers, but also on our employees and the communities in which they work and live.
Be determined Be inspirational We got where we are today by With nearly 40 years of being determined.
And thats experience, AutoTrader is how well continue to succeed.
Be reliable Be humble Our customers depend on We need our customers us, so we must always be more than they need us.
there with useful services Everything we do, we that work effortlessly.
Be curious Asking questions and trying things out is the best way to stay ahead of changes in the digital world.
39 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Corporate social responsibility continued As at 27 March 2016 Male Female Total Gender All employees 546 301 847 Senior managers being the members 9 5 14 of the Operational Leadership Team diversity Directors of AutoTrader Group plc 4 2 6 Employee engagement and rewards Following the all-employee share incentive plan SIP launched after our stock market flotation, a share save scheme SAYE for the benefit of Group employees was implemented which not only recognises and rewards employees, but also promotes a culture of shared ownership.
This year the Company launched Incredible Benefits, a new way for employees to access all the benefits offered at AutoTrader in one place, enabling them to tailor their benefits package to meet their own specific needs.
As well as our Company funded benefits, we offer a wide range of voluntary benefits, including childcare vouchers, health cash plan and critical illness insurance, that are proving popular amongst our employees.
In recognition of our commitment to rewarding our employees, AutoTrader was voted number 13 in the UK for pay and benefits by Glassdoor, the UKs fastest growing jobs and recruitment To help us achieve our mission of leading the platform.
The Group continues to focus future of the digital automotive marketplace, on its highly engaged workforce, and on 79% we have built a fast-paced culture that has attracting and retaining the most talented innovation at its heart and is based around individuals in the market.
As part of the Employee engagement a strong set of core values.
Our teams are Groups shift to a digital culture, the Group Figure calculated via Culture Amp.
focused on continually developing our site has not only been able to reduce its Engagement is defined as The level of to ensure consumers get a great user headcount March 2016: 847 vs March connection, motivation and commitment a person feels for the place they work.
experience as well as developing innovative 2015: 876 but also retain a more products that will add value to our retailers.
We value our people and their opinions.
We organise an annual Employee Conference and hold regular business updates throughout the year to update employees on the Groups performance and operating priorities as well as giving them an opportunity to ask questions.
40 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements AutoTrader is committed to investing in its employees through extensive training and People leadership programmes that are designed to equip all employees with the necessary skills to help them perform to the best of development their ability as well as to foster a culture of highly engaged employees committed to achieving the Groups mission.
and training We continue to deliver our three-day induction programme for all new starters that allows them to understand the core values of our business and help achieve a one team culture at AutoTrader.
We have launched a Learning Hub which supports our people in driving their own development through a wide range of learning opportunities using masterclasses, bitesize sessions and online learning.
The Graduate, The Practical People Leader and Leadership Development Programme operate throughout the year including external away days that allow participants to fully appreciate and utilise each others strengths and capabilities no matter where they operate in the business.
Equal opportunities We are also taking part in the Change 100 Human The Group is committed to treating all of internship programme organised by Leonard its employees and job applicants fairly and Cheshire Disability offering one talented equally.
It is our policy not to discriminate student with a disability a summer rights and on the basis of their gender, sexual placement in our Manchester head office.
orientation, marital or civil partner status, inclusion gender reassignment, race, religion or belief, We are dedicated to supporting colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, employees that become disabled during disability or age, pregnancy or trade union their employment with us.
We recognise membership or the fact that they are a that each individual is unique and we Human rights policy: living our values part-time worker or a fixed-term employee.
provide support and make reasonable At AutoTrader we aspire to be the UKs The equal opportunities policy operated by adjustments to ensure they continue most admired digital business and we the Group ensures all workers have a duty realising their full potential at work.
want that admiration to come from to act in accordance with this.
employees, suppliers and customers We continue to offer training, career alike.
Being admired is not an end in itself.
Employees with disabilities development and promotion opportunities But it matters because the only way to We welcome all applications for employment by taking appropriate action related to the deliver the best services for our customers made by individuals with disabilities.
Our needs of the individuals to allow them to and do the right things by our people dedicated Auto Trader Resourcing team will continue to have a fulfilling career with us.
is to approach things in the right way.
make reasonable adjustments in the recruitment process according to the needs of each Whether youre in the workplace or away individual to ensure that they can perform from the office on company business we their best during the assessment stage.
all must behave professionally, ethically and legally, treating people with decency and respect.
41 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Corporate social responsibility continued Making a difference in the community Each year we assign a fundraising budget We have formed a strategic partnership which allows employees the opportunity with Forever Manchester which will help to request funds for causes that are close us to make a difference in the communities to their hearts.
This allows us to help a in which we operate.
The 2016 AutoTrader wide range of organisations and offers Community Fund will offer sponsorship employees a variety of ways to get involved.
of up to 1,000 to many local charities and community groups aimed at really making Donations from AutoTrader directly to a difference in the lives of people across charities totalled 44,000 last year and the region.
our employees raised additional funds with fundraising activities across the year.
Leading up to Christmas last year Christmas lunch at the London office for approximately one hundred elderly visitors the St Pancras Community Association However, being a good corporate citizen is from local community centres near the not just about fundraising: our community Manchester and London offices joined us involvement policy supports employees to share a Christmas dinner and festive We have formed a strategic who wish to work with communities across entertainment with some of our employees.
partnership with Forever the UK, either as private individuals or as employees of AutoTrader.
Our community During the last year we have also supported Manchester which will help sponsorship programme provides or sponsored Code Club in two schools in us to make a difference in employees with a bursary to support local Greater Manchester, teaching young students the communities in which initiatives or clubs that they are involved how to code.
We have also been a corporate we operate.
It can be not only about making a partner for HOME, the largest art centre monetary donation but also about offering outside London, and the Manchester our time and expertise whilst maximising International Festival, the worlds first festival the take-up of volunteering days, one of of original, new work and special events.
Health and safety We are committed to maintaining a safe workplace for our employees, customers, visitors, contractors and anyone affected by our business activities.
It is therefore our policy that all of the Groups facilities, products and services comply with applicable laws and regulations governing safety and quality.
During the year there were no major injuries reported under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
42 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Greenhouse Environment gas emissions statement AutoTrader is required to measure and report its direct and indirect greenhouse gas GHG emissions by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The greenhouse gas reporting period is aligned to the financial reporting year.
The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based on the financial consolidation approach, as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, ACorporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition 2004.
Emission factors used are from UK government DEFRA conversion factor guidance current for the year reported.
The report includes the Scope 1 combustion of fuel and Scope 2 purchased electricity and gas emissions associated with our offices.
We have chosen to present a revenue intensity ratio as this is a relevant indicator of We are mindful of the effects of our business Both offices are graded highly by the our growth and is aligned with our on our environment and continue to support BREEAM standard, specifically the Kings business strategy.
The reduction in energy efficiency throughout our business Cross office is rated Outstanding and tCO is due to the centralisation of 2 activities.
As an internet-based Group with the Manchester office is rated Excellent.
our offices part way through 2015. most staff employed in two office locations, The Kings Cross office is linked to the we believe our own environmental footprint site-wide district heating network.
We encourage our employees to network will provide close to 100% of Absolute carbon take steps to address our environmental the developments heating and hot water emissions tCO 445 793 2 responsibilities.
For instance we operate needs.
The building has been designed Revenue m 281.6 255.9 recycling schemes which were established to maximise the environmental benefits 1 Carbon intensity 1.6 3.1 with local authorities and recycling partners.
Orientation, solar shading, Year-on-year There are no waste bins at desks in our the use of thermal mass for cooling and change -49% offices which encourages the amount of passive ventilation systems all contribute 1 A bsolute carbon emissions divided by recycling we do.
We use Fruitful Office to deliver fruit to both offices each week.
For every fruit basket our employees receive, the Fruitful The Companys Strategic report is set 1,297 Office plants a fruit tree in Malawi to help out on pages 2 to 43.
Approved by mitigate the effect of global warming, trees planted by Fruitful Office the Board on 9 June 2016 and signed deforestation and providing an income to on Auto Traders behalf on its behalf by: support the local communities.
This year, the scheme has planted 1,297 trees on Sean Glithero AutoTraders behalf.
Company Secretary 9 June 2016 43 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
