R E E D N V L I R R E O O D N L H O M E E H N K E T K A A AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Corporate responsibility FOLLOWING THE AVEVA CSR FRAMEWORK, THIS SECTION PROVIDES A REPORT ON EACH OF OUR TARGETED AREAS AND CONTINUES TO DEMONSTRATE THE BROAD RANGE OF ACTIVITIES AVEVA PARTICIPATES IN WITHIN LOCAL COMMUNITIES AS AN ETHICALLY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Internal stakeholders 5% 30 AVEVA is a diverse organisation with employees in 30 countries increase in headcount countries where we have offices and from many different cultures.
Our Global Ambassador Network continues to expand and provides a channel for our employees to provide feedback to the senior management team.
Editorial teams manage the networks regional communications to ensure our largest regions receive both corporate and regionally focused updates regularly, to support our employees in their roles.
As of 31 March 2016 we have a headcount of 1,706, a 5% increase on last year 2015 1,623.
75% of our employees are male and 25% are female 2015 73% and 27%.
External stakeholders Transparency and disclosure is fundamental to our relationship with customers and suppliers and CSR we continue to maintain open, honest and fair discussions to maintain our reputation as a trusted and ethical organisation.
To protect the interest of our customers, our Anti-Piracy and Compliance teams monitor the illegal use of AVEVA software and enforce compliance within our terms and conditions.
This team has been expanded over the past two years in order to tackle the increased use of illegal software.
AVEVA will continue to invest in both people and technology to further ensure compliant use of its technology.
Whilst illegal use of our software is an ongoing challenge, AVEVA is becoming much more successful in the detection of such cases and the subsequent enforcement of licence terms.
To embed and reinforce our corporate policy against the acceptance or payment of bribes we have enhanced and improved our eLearning tools.
Every employee completes the Global Corporate Governance and Group IT Compliance training each year to ensure that we maintain our high ethical standards.
We review monthly operational challenges in the key regional hubs to ensure local governance.
36 T T S S L C A L O N A R M E M N T U X R N E I E T Y T N I STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AVEVA in the community Employee engagement Learning and Development We are proud of our AVEVA During September 2015 we Our well established learning and colleagues who continue to carried out Pulse engagement development programmes continue support many local, national surveys in five key locations.
to provide a range of opportunities for and international charities.
We match Out of the total 654 employees who our current employees.
This includes the funding raised by employees who were invited to participate we achieved on-line language studies, technical have participated in various events, a 78% response rate and the overall development and management such as marathons, charity auctions, score for engagement was 82%.
This year AVEVA has matched a total of 59,473 to Where there were areas highlighted To support our ambition to attract and support local communities.
that showed improvement was nurture young, talented people we necessary, action plans were continue, through our apprenticeship One of the many fine examples of the developed and implemented.
schemes, work experience and as fantastic support that our teams have members of specific science and given during the course of the year comes Managers play a critical role in engineering groups, to encourage young from our team in Japan, who wanted to engagement and we continue to invest people to start their careers with us.
provide support to the growing number to support our senior management of refugees who find themselves in team.
An example of this has been the Last year we saw: difficult situations.
The team took part development of a specific Managers in a charity initiative to donate their Zone on our corporate intranet which 2,166 hours of technical training used clothes to help raise funds through hosts a range of materials, information and PluraSight completed a Japanese clothing retail chain.
toolkits for managers, to support them 2,671 hours of classroom training as they communicate with and develop 44 colleagues completing Management The chain have been donating clothing their teams.
The Executive Team holds Development to many vulnerable groups in the region: manager briefings on key issues affecting 254 hours of AVEVA eLearning evacuees, victims of disaster, expectant employees, providing updates along with completed and nursing mothers, as well as others an open forum for questions and answers.
The team collected a vast amount of clothing and Communications are looking to continue to support this Keeping employees informed of business charity in such a simple but effective way priorities and changes remains a key focus to make a difference to peoples lives.
As a global organisation, it is important that everyone feels part of AVEVA and that we share information across all teams and regions.
Regular internal communication campaigns help to achieve this through people stories, successes and competitions, our aim is to be inclusive and to celebrate our diversity.
Engagement levels remain high and we use feedback from our Global Ambassador Network to continue to improve and develop information that both informs and motivates our employees.
1 01 Charity clothing collection point set up byour Japanese office 02 Participants from our Hyderabad office 2 graduate Springboard programme 37 AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Corporate responsibility CONTINUED Gender split Male Female 2,166 hours 5 of technical training PluraSight Directors 1 completed Executive 6 team 1 2,671 hours 1,285 Employees of classroom training 421 Carbon emissions On the rare occasion that the information 44 AVEVA is committed to minimising its was not available for a particular AVEVA colleagues completing Management carbon emissions, increasing the use of office, an estimate has been produced Development recycling opportunities and reducing the based on the ratio between the local office use of valuable natural resources.
We are size, and our UK offices, which we believe continually improving the way in which we offers the best available comparison.
254 hours capture and record our emissions data.
The 2014 financial year serves as the of AVEVA eLearning completed For the purposed of this report, the baseline for our targets.
For our carbon emissions have been calculated according intensity ratio we have measured our to the Environmental Reporting carbon usage as it relates to our business Guidelines: Including mandatory performance, citing tonnes of CO e 2 greenhouse gas emissions reporting million of revenue.
In 2016 this intensity guidance issued by the Department ratio increased to 13.80 tonnes CO e 2 for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs million 2015 10.36.
This increase reflects DEFRA, and by applying DEFRAs the growth of our overall headcount and Conversion Factors.
We have aimed for hence a larger overall carbon footprint, the Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions to rather than any particular inefficiencies be captured for all of our UK and overseas arising during the course of the year.
offices between April 2015 and March 2016.
Tonnes of CO e 2 Emissions from: 2016 2015 Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 789 859 Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 2,106 1,424 Scope 3 Transmission & Distribution losses 446 257 3,341 2,540 Intensity Measurement Scopes 1 and 2 Tonnes CO e m revenue 13.80 10.36 2 Scope 1 Tonnes of CO e by region Tonnes of CO e equivalent Combustion of fuel and operation 2 2 offacilities 1,800 Scope 2 1,600 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 1,400 purchased for own use 1,200 Scope 3 1,000 Transmission & Distribution losses 800 600 400 200 0 Americas Asia Pacic EMEA Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 | 789 Scope 2 | 2,106 Scope 3 | 446 This Strategic Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: Philip Aiken Chairman 24 May 2016 38
