Corporate responsibility 58 Good thinking for everyone MAKING THE RIGHT CALL our community investment, by 5%, Our business ethics code outlines our high totalling 11.3 million 2015: 10.8 million ethical standards and ensures we operate and helped 939,000 people.
We also responsibly and transparently.
We require harnessed the passion and talent of our all our people, at every level, to read and employees, who contributed 41,700 hours sign-up to our code every year.
We provide of volunteering time and gave or financial crime prevention training, in areas fundraised over 1.9 million.
Our people such as fraud and market abuse and our are the lifeblood of our corporate malpractice helpline Right Call makes it responsibility strategy and our Voice of easy to report any concerns in confidence, Aviva results show that 84% of our people with all reports referred to independent believe that Aviva is a good corporate 1 investigation.
In 2016, 25 cases were citizen and these employees are 59% reported through Right Call 2015: 25.
18 more likely to be proud of Aviva.
cases reached conclusion, and seven Since issuing our first re insurance In February 2016 we launched a group policy over 320 years ago, we have remain under investigation.
There has wide three year strategic partnership with been no material litigation arising from any never been afraid to help tackle the big the British Red Cross.
We are investing in issues.
With current challenges such as cases reported in 2016. global disaster response and resilience, ageing populations and climate sharing our risk management change, our ambition needs to be SUPPORTING expertise to help communities COMMUNITIES bigger than at any time in our history.
to be better informed, That is why we are using our bright In 2016, we used our prepared, and therefore expertise to give ideas for the good of our customers, more resilient if our communities and the world.
We organisations are using our digital PUTTING CUSTOMERS FIRST across our markets skills with our the support they Our approach always starts with the global mapathon customer and to build trust we must need to make a and British Red difference in their always do the right thing for them.
An Cross psychosocial example of this is the simplication of our local communities training is helping through the Aviva products and services to ensure they meet us look after our our customers needs.
In the UK, we have Community Fund.
In customers even 2016, we increased done this through the launch of MyAviva better in times of crisis.
and in Aviva Singapore we now accept paperless death claims, reducing pay-out times from 60 days to just three, helping Im proud of what weve achieved to support customers when they really need it.
In Poland, we talked to our in2016 and am focused on customers about improving our standard communications and are rewriting them to ensuringwecontinue to build remove any insurance jargon.
We know that we are not always perfect and any abrightand sustainable future complaints and feedback we receive are taken seriously and investigated forAvivaand our customers thoroughly.
This commitment is reected in the customer business standard all our #Aviva2016 markets abide by see the policies section of aviva.
Kirstine Cooper Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 1 The equivalent Financial Services Benchmark for socialresponsibility is 75%.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate responsibility 59 WHAT WE ACHIEVED AVIVA COMMUNITY FUND 46% We are carbon neutral and weve reduced our CO e 2 by 46% since 2010 our baseline year, offsetting 1.3 million tonnes over the last ten years.
1,600 projects Our community development activity, including the Aviva Community Fund and carbon offset projects, have benefited 1,600 community projects and 939,000 people globally.
Our online Aviva Community Fund ACF shows our values of Create Legacy and Care More in action.
Anyone can nominate and vote for inspirational projects in their local communities, with the winners UN collaboration getting funding and support.
The ACF is now operating in six of our markets across the world.
Were Following our global commitment to the delighted to support so many wonderful causes.
The Sustainable Development Goals, Mark Wilson set Happy Community Service in Hong Kong above was out to world leaders Avivas practical one of ten projects that won funding to help recommendations to accelerate progress towards strengthen different aspects of local community life.
Now young families in the Kwun Tong District can enjoy free family activities, helping to support their community thanks to ACF.
Upholding business ethics RED CROSS MAPATHON Ensured that 98% of our people globally confirmed they had read, understood and accepted the business ethics code.
WHAT WE PL AN TO DO Strengthening local communities Replicate the Aviva Community Fund in more markets and target 2.5 million beneciaries and 200,000 hours of volunteering by 2020.
Were in business to help people to Defy Uncertainty.
So were a natural partner for the British Red Cross.
That takes many forms, but one of the most enjoyable Red Cross Partnership was when 1,000 of our people across 13 markets took Build on the successful launch of our British Red part in the Aviva Global Mapathon.
They used their Cross partnership, sharing our skills and working computers to map 75,000 buildings in some of the together to help our customers and vulnerable most vulnerable communities in the world.
Their communities become safer and stronger in times mapping will help the planning work in Malawi for a of uncertainty and crisis.
childhood Measles and Rubella immunisation initiative and in Haiti, where many rural communities were devastated by Hurricane Matthew.
Every 1 invested in reducing the risk of disaster saves 4 in emergency Tackling response and reconstruction.
climate change Continue progress towards our 2.5billion target in low carbon infrastructure investment by 2020 andour long-term CO e reduction targetof 70% 2 by 2030.
Aviva is one of the top-scoring companies in the 2016 Dow Jones Sustainability Index run in partnership with RobecoSAM and a long-standing member of the FTSE4Good Index.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility continued 60 OUR HUMAN RIGHTS APPROACH HELPING PROTECT OUR CUSTOMERS In 2016 we have continued to implement the requirements of our human rights policy across the business.
Additionally, as required by the UK Modern Slavery Act, we have taken steps to ensure slavery and human trafcking are not taking place in our business or supply chain.
This included risk assessing our UK suppliers, and updating supplier contract templates, our supplier code of behaviour and our business ethics code, to ensure all employees understand the role they play.
We also engaged suppliers to understand their risk of modern slavery and provided training to our procurement function on this topic.
For our complete modern slavery statement please see aviva.
Storms during the winter of 2015 2016 had a terrible impact in parts of the North of England and the Scottish Borders.
Storm Desmond saw the UKs record OUR GLOBAL COMMITMENT for rainfall in a 24 hour period smashed and thousands TOHUMAN RIGHTS COVERS: of homes ooded.
Aviva had over 250 claims in Carlisle alone.
We were on the ground as quickly as possible to sort things out for our customers and help Customers them access the ood resilience grants they needed.
We respect the rights of our customers by treating Reinstating our customers homes was our top priority them fairly and ensuring their data is managed in but weve also made sure their homes are more an ethical, lawful and responsible way.
resilient, so if theres another ood theyll be better Our people protected.
It was a moment of truth when we showed We promote fair reward, diversity and inclusion, we Care More about our customers.
equal opportunities, the freedom of association and other human rights through our interactions MONEY TALKS WHAT DOES with our people.
We provide a secure, safe and YOURSSAY?
healthy environment for all our people.
Due diligence We conduct human rights due diligence periodically to ensure we are not complicit in human rights abuse in the countries we operate in.
Investment We are committed to investing our money and our customers money in a responsible manner.
Aviva Investors is a founding signatory to the UN Principles of Responsible Investment and founding partner of the Corporate Human Rights Benchmark Initiative.
Suppliers We evaluate, select and ask suppliers to disclose Many people know how important it is to save for their human rights policies as part of our selection acomfortable retirement.
But they may not know criteria.
In the UK, we were an early adopter in much about the companies in which their savings for achieving accreditation by the Living Wage retirement are invested.
While pensions are all about Foundation.
We ensure suppliers pay at least the savings for the long term, its possible theyre being Living Wage to employees subcontracted to Aviva.
invested in companies that make short term profits, rather than creating a sustainable long term legacy.
Governance Weve made a short lm to explain how everyone can We have a set of Policies, Business Standards and help to make sure more money is invested sustainably internal procedures which support delivery of our and responsibly.
You can see it using the QR code below.
Reporting We are committed to ensuring that we adequately report human rights performance according to suitable benchmarks and frameworks for financial services.
Grievance mechanisms Customers or other external stakeholders can report human rights concerns to the Group Corporate Responsibility Directorate Scan to watch CR.
com or to Right Call oursustainable rightcall@expolink.
investmentlm Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued 61 action on climate change.
We actively ENSURING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE engage with policymakers to help Protecting the environment today means unlockcapital markets to deliver on we can all enjoy a bright and sustainable USING DORMANT MONEY FOR GOOD thesepriorities.
We have assessed our potential Sometimes people lose track of their environmental risks, focusing our strategy investments.
Despite companies efforts to STARTING WITH OURSELVES on the issues that matter most to our trace the owner and re-unite them with We have a proud history of taking action customers, business and stakeholders see their funds, it is not always possible.
Aviva to reduce the environmental impact of our page 70 for more details.
We work hard to has contributed our bright ideas and business and were the first carbon neutral ensure that assets remain insurable despite people to the Dormant Assets Commission insurer worldwide in 2006.
We continue to environmental risks and use our expertise to help it recommend ways for dormant offset 100% of any remaining carbon to advise customers on how they can help or lost funds to go to charity, whilst emissions and our offsetting projects have protect the people and things they love.
protecting the rights of owners to reclaim helped over 970,000 people since 2012 This included partnering with the Institute their funds at any time.
live better lives e. g. through provision of for Catastrophic Loss Reduction ICLR in clean cook-stoves in Kenya.
In 2016 our Canada to develop the Plan & Protect app CHAMPIONING RESPONSIBLE solar panel solar pv power systems began to help people prepare for and minimise INVESTMENT generating renewable electricity in three the impact of unforeseen weather events Aviva is committed to responsible Aviva ofce sites across the UK.
In light of and natural disasters.
investment, using our inuence to support our progress in reducing our carbon more sustainable businesses and ultimately emissions against the 2020 target, we have A CHALLENGE FOR TODAY, a more sustainable economy and society.
recently revised our ambitions, setting a NOTTOMORROW Aviva Investors is a proud founding higher target of 50% reduction by 2020 Aviva has a long-term commitment to signatory to the UN Principles for and 70% by 2030.
To date we have tackle climate change and in November we Responsible Investment.
For over two achieved a 46% reduction against the published progress on our strategy to act decades we have focused on good 2010 baseline.
Under the Carbon on climate-related investment risk over the stewardship, taking considered voting Reduction Commitment Energy efficiency next five years 2015-2020.
This can be action and actively engaging with our Scheme, we reported total emissions of found on aviva.
com reports and includes holdings.
We use our environmental, social 55,517 tonnes of CO e in 2016, costing details of our progress a year on from the 2 and governance ESG insight to make 883,623.
This mandatory scheme is historic COP21 agreement in a number of better longer term investment decisions.
limited to UK businesses emissions from areas, including low carbon investment, We recognise the challenges of nancing building energy, and includes the property supporting policy action, active action on the Sustainable Development portfolio of our investment funds managed stewardship and divestment.
Goals and the particular urgency to take by Aviva investors.
CLIMATE RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Aviva was represented on the Financial Stability Boards Taskforce on Climaterelated Financial Disclosure this year.
We Our carbon footprint boundaries show the scope of the data we have provided an initial high-level response monitor and the emissions we offset.
We report on Greenhouse Gas to Taskforce recommendations in our roles GHG emission sources on acarbon dioxide emissions equivalents basis as an asset owner, insurer and asset CO e as required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and manager Aviva Investors this can be 2 Directors Reports 2013 Regulations.
We also refer to the GHG Protocol found in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, and emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting2016.
Scope 1 natural gas, Scope 2 electricity.
Scope 3 business fugitiveemissions, oil, traveland greyeet, And if society isnt companyowned cars.
sustainable then CO2e tonnes per employee CO2e tonnes per m GWP 2016 2.0 3.12 business is at risk.
2015 2.2 4.05 #Aviva2016 2014 2.4 3.87 Mark Wilson Group CEO, Aviva This includes Friends Life business operations for the whole of 2015.
2016 Assurance provided by  LLP in the Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of Aviva plc in the Annual Report and Accounts Carbon offsetting through the acquisition and surrender of emissions units on the voluntary market.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 OPER ATIONAL GLOBAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DATA BOUNDARIES 62 Operating profit Up 12% to 3,010m Prior period comparatives have been restated.
Referto Note 1 on page 154 for further information.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 63 Cash remittances Up 20% to 1,805m Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
