Our people 30 Transforming Aviva from the inside out deVeLOPING OUR TALeNT To succeed we need to empower our people to develop the skills and experiences they need to thrive and deliver for our customers.
In 2016, we: Strengthened our executive team succession by investing in innovative To disrupt insurance, we must programmes for future leaders and transform our culture.
with the right women in leadership: culture, Aviva will be agile, innovative Moved 22% of our high potential and visionary.
we will delight and people into new roles which will serve our customers brilliantly.
develop and stretch them, and benefit Aviva: We employ around 29,500 people Launched # globally and are particularly proud to for 23 future leaders in our UK support the regional economies in our Digital business: home market, where we employ more Ran the second cohort of our Finance than 16,000 people across the UK.
Future Talent programme which helps transition technical finance OUR STRATeGY managers to senior management: and To disrupt Our global people strategy sets out how Relaunched our global graduate we will accelerate our performance programmes, so that Aviva builds a insurance we from the inside out.
We will: full pipeline of new talent.
must transform Focus on our customers by BeCOMING A dIGITAL TALeNT connecting the day-to-day activities our culture deSTINATION of our people with our purpose: We have taken steps to encourage #Aviva2016 Give our people the freedom to act digital and future talent to join Aviva.
in line with our values, particularly In 2016, we: Sarah Morris Chief People Officer paying attention to Kill Complexity: Opened a digital garage in Toronto Make leadership a way of life so all to provide an agile environment our people contribute to delivering and encourage collaboration and our strategy, think independently creativity: and inspire high performance: Launched secondment opportunities Create an inclusive and diverse with our Plug and Play partners, a environment so that everyone can global digital start-up accelerator, in be themselves: and Silicon Valley: and Create competitive advantage by Introduced a software developer actively investing in the skills, apprenticeship programme into our mindsets and future talent we need UK Digital team with places offered to win in a digital age.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Our people 31 WHAT WE ACHIEVED Improved GROW OUR DIGITAL LEARNING PORTAL engagement We increased our employee engagement score to74% by four percentage points.
Support for Avivas strategy is at its highest level up nine percentage points to 78%.
Agile communications We launched Aviva #Uncut in 2016, where our senior leaders are streamed live on a weekly basis answering any question, from anyone, anywhere about anything.
Inclusive diversity 87% of our people feel that people from diverse backgrounds can succeed at Aviva.
We are GROW is our new online pathways for our people in accelerating our strategy through innovative learning and career portal, underwriting and claims.
Weve practices and expert partners.
which we piloted in Canada.
It had almost 11,000 hits since its brings together the tools and launch in September 2016.
In resources people need to do 2017, well add user-generated their jobs, develop their career content and map out more WHAT WE PL AN TO DO and ultimately full their skills pathways for our people.
It features details of GROW will also be available secondments and job onall devices, including Culture opportunities across the world, mobiles, to make it accessible essential learning and skills and convenient.
We are accelerating our focus on customers, innovation and simplicity in our culture, fuelled by our purpose of Defy Uncertainty and our Our people are more values.
positivethan last year on awide range of areas, but Digital theres more we can do capability #Aviva2016 We will develop outstanding digital capability Sarah Morris Chief People officer and agile work practices to disrupt the industry, encourage creative problem-solving, speed and exibility, with a philosophy of test and learn.
Leadership We will reinvent the way we identify, select, We are proud to be a Living Wage Foundation partner and develop and motivate leaders to inspire our a fully accredited Living Wage employer in the UK people to create breakthroughs for our customers and foster an inclusive work environment.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Our people continued 32 INCLUSION AND DIVERSIT Y OUR VALUES C ARE MORE We start with the customer and prioritise delivering a great outcome for them.
We do the right thing, making sure we and those around us are acting with positive intent.
We dont shrink from the tough conversations.
KILL COMPLEXIT Y We can list our priorities on one hand, picking a few things to do brilliantly.
We make the call with the right information.
We join forces and build it once.
NEVER REST We fail fast and learn fast, testing and learning at pace.
We are dissatisfied with the way things are done now.
We challenge ourselves to learn about the cutting edge and harness it.
Becoming a more by the 30% Club - a Inside Out inclusive and diverse commitment for 30% programme for 30 CREATE LEGAC Y organisation is a of our Group women.
Its designed We invest with courage, taking business imperative.
Executive to be to develop our future smart risks and making good Jan Gooding, our women by 2020. female talent by decisions to ensure we allocate Global Inclusion We want to exploring purpose, our resources where they can do Director, also chair of achieve inclusion authenticity, most.
We think like an owner, LGBT equality charity through leadership, inuence and taking responsibility.
We go for Stonewall, is leading developing leaders confidence.
Its a more than quick wins.
and visible role great way for our the long view.
In 2016, gender models across Aviva talent to develop the diversity was a big who embody and skills they need to be focus for us.
For In 2017, we will OUR VALUES IN AC TION was the first FTSE 100 example, weve evolve our working CEO to sign up to the launched our culture and work Each year we look to all corners of Aviva to nd the Executive Committee Accelerating hard to actively true values legends.
Those people that champion our commitment outlined Leadership from the embrace everyone.
We celebrate these colleagues at our Living Legends Awards at our annual CEO Forum where we share their stories, and recognise their contribution by donating 5,000 to a charity of their We will hardwire inclusion choice.
In 2016, we received over 80 nominations, and the winners included: into everything we do CARE MORE: Joanne Cann, UK Life, for increasing to allow our people to do morale and setting up a Womens network in Bristol their best work KILL COMPLEXITY: Alison Blowers, Aviva Investors, for digitising over 30 million documents in one system #Aviva2016 NEVER REST: Lionel Chee, Singapore, for being an individual who is driven and never satisfied Sarah Morris Chief People officer CREATE LEGACY: Damian Cross, UKGI, for helping our ood customers and his work with the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Our people continued 33 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE At 31 December 2016, we had We are committed to ensuring we More than 50,000 comments were the following gender split: provide full and fair consideration for provided and analysed in this years job applications from people with BOARD MEMBERSHIP global Voice of Aviva survey.
Employee disabilities, as well as supporting any engagement is up by four percentage of our people who become disabled Male 1 points to 74%, led by significant while working for Aviva.
For example, improvements within our UK Life, we adapt the working environment global functions, French, Irish and Aviva 10 where we can and offer exible Investors businesses.
Importantly working practices to take into account Female former Friends Life colleagues their personal circumstances.
engagement signicantly strengthened up 11 percentage points highlighting HEALTH AND WELLBEING 3 how successful the integration work has We help our people blend the demands been over the past 12 months.
of work and home through initiatives Our people are more positive than like our new maternity policy in Asia SENIOR MANAGEMENT last year on a wide range of areas, in and time off for parents when their Male particular strong rises in their children start school.
Were also perception of diversity and inclusion, transforming the workplace.
In recognition and a significant jump in Poland, we are piloting a new ofce 527 support for the strategy with 78% environment as well as the opportunity saying they believe, understand and to work exibly up to four days a week.
Female agree with our strategy.
As we focus on our growth and OUR PLANS FOR 2017 151 digital agenda, employees shared Culture, leadership and developing strong alignment on how we achieve digital capabilities are high priorities this with 57% requesting simpler for us as we transform our business.
AVIVA GROUP systems and processes and 41% We have mapped out how we will EMPLOYEES requesting greater collaboration and accelerate Avivas transformation into cross team working.
Action planning is a company that puts the customers at Male the centre of everything we do and in taking place at a global level and in every large team to address this which our people can deliver in an 14,302 innovative and simple way.
alongside responding to the local feedback and results.
In 2017 we will continue to build on Female our strengths in gender, age, sexual However, we recognise there is more to do to transform our culture orientation and socio-economic mobility.
We will also gather better and this is a focus in 2017.
15,228 data and insight, so we will be well-placed to make progress on race INCLUSIVE DIVERSITY We will build an agile and diverse 5,000 visible lesbian, gay, bisexual and and ethnicity, and disability from 2018. workforce to reect the population transgender LGBT Allies in the UK, make-up of each country we operate and we are establishing it in Ireland Gender: continue to unlock the potential of gender diversity - in and the customers we seek to serve.
The Aviva Pride Allies We are building on the existing programme has signicantly raised the including improving our understanding of issues relating to strengths of our networks and prole of Aviva Pride and issues still partnerships.
Aviva Pride now has over affecting the LGBT community.
gender identity, and strengthening the pool of future women leaders.
Age: focusing our effort in the UK on ways we can increase the KEEPING OUR CUSTOMER FOCUS proportion of our workforce who are over 50.
Sexual orientation: we will continue to build our Aviva Pride allies network across the group, and nd ways to achieve our aspiration that LGBT colleagues can be themselves at work.
Socio-economic mobility: making sure that development and growth are open to all regardless of social background.
We have a clear strategy and we will accelerate the delivery of that strategy by having the right culture, the best To make sure our brings together genuine Its a great way of people, and by always putting customers are front-ofreal-time customer keeping everyone customers first.
mind for every one of feedback, in the form of focused on what matters our UK people videos, social media to our customers and whatever their role we comments, telephone how we can serve them 1 Restated to reect a new methodology used have developed Frame.
It calls or online reviews.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 DIVERSIT Y 34 Helping to prevent and protect Were there for our customers when bad things happen.
But we can also help prevent bad things happening in the first place Prevention, not just P L AN AN D P R OT E CT protection, is key to Knowing about natural disasters in advance can be a helping our customers matter of life and death and certainly means youre better prepared to withstand them.
Our Defy Uncertainty Canadian business has teamed up with the Institute for Catastrophic Loss Reduction to create the Plan #Aviva2016 and Protect app, which sends you personalised information so you can better prepare.
Maurice Tulloch Chief Executive officer, International Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 35 G E T T I NG F IT AN D S T AYIN G HE A LT H Y Weve all got busy lifestyles so its often hard to make sure you eat well and exercise properly.
Our online service for our life protection customers in Spain provides a wealth of information on getting healthy and staying healthy everything from exercise programmes to advice on diet.
Its a first for the industry but more importantly, it helps our customers.
MI N I MI S E L E AK D A M AG E IN YO U R H OM E Many of us will know the damage leaking pipes can cause in our homes.
Through our partnership with HomeServe were the first insurer to be able to offer LeakBot a great way to help selected UK customers to detect leaks anywhere in the water mains supply to their home.
It never rests in monitoring your system and sends you an alert to your phone if it nds a leak.
Its a great way of making sure small leaks dont become big problems.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 36 We help and support our 33m customers Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 37 Our businesses deliver consistent and predictable growth Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
