Sustainability Delivering and maintaining a sustainable business Business sustainability is often described as resiliency over time.
Our consistent focus remains on creating long-term value for shareholders through a strong andsustainable business.
More now than ever, we understand We believe that we can sustain the campaigns and initiatives in the that how we deal with our customers, long-term future of our business in apprentice and graduate programmes our employees, our suppliers, the ways that also serve the interests as well as talent development and communities in which we operate ofindividuals and local economies, management training schemes are and our impact on the environment is forexample: through apprenticeships, intended to underpin thelong-term fundamental to achieving our plans and graduate schemes, training and general successof the future of the Company.
It is our belief career development and succession Last year we demonstrated Babcocks that strong success can only be delivered opportunities across the Group.
We work commitment to diversity by hosting through a sustainable business, which is hard toprotect the health and safety of the Women In Science and Engineering why at Babcock we uphold the strictest our employees and others and to avoid WISE event in Rosyth, recognising the standards of business ethics, deliver or keep to a minimum any adverse effect invaluable contribution made by women a competitive talent development of our operations on the surrounding in engineering.
Initiatives like these and programme and put safety at the environment.
How we go about delivering our continued commitment to enhance forefront of everything we do.
our commitment to sustainability is our highly skilled and diverse workforce discussed further in this report, and are intended to anchor us in a position to Babcock is the UKs leading additionally in the sustainability section of achieve and sustain our strategic aims.
engineeringsupport services organisation each of our divisions operational reviews.
We deliver in a range of markets and Our Group-wide Code of Business countries, operating and supporting Conduct, supplemented by appropriate complex infrastructure, equipment and guidance and training, is not only the training programmes.
We are therefore right approach to doing business in itself required toconsider a wide and complex but is also intended to support long-term range of stakeholders, interests and success by minimising financial risk and Peter Rogers CBE concerns.
We look to do this by sustaining our reputation.
Chief Executive maintaining three overarching, Our ability to attract, recruit, retain and underpinning and interlinking pillars of develop the people we need now and in sustainability: profit and performance: the future is also fundamental to that people and potential: and environment long-term success.
Number of graduates Number of apprentices 599 714 2015: 530 2015: 622 Description Description Number of graduates currently Number of employees currently on on a Group graduate programme.
See page 60 for more information See page 60 for more information Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 56 Profit and Performance How our investment in: building long-term relationships: delivering critical through-life support: using high performing and ethical suppliers: and supporting local and diverse economies supports our target of buildingmarket leading positions and delivering value to our customers, our colleagues and our investors.
Critical maintenance of Hawk jet turbine People and Potential How our focus on: discovering and developing diverse talent and progression routes: inspiring and encouraging the next generation of engineers: and our open dialogue with management delivers measurable benefits to a sustainable business and its communities.
Potential recognised with innovation in LPG design award Environment and Ethics How our commitment to thestandards set out in our Code of Conduct underpins how we act with our customers, our employees andour suppliers as well as the communities andenvironments that wework in.
Routine safety check on Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Babcock International Group PLC 57 HMS Queen Elizabeths flight deck Sustainability continued Profit and Performance The efficiencies that we deliver The output of procurement activities These tools also provide a common througheffective contract management, istoachieve better value for our approach which enable us to share best innovation and through-life management customersand shareholders through practice across the organisation.
We are enable us to return value to our customers, thedelivery ofeffective and efficient able to use consistent business intelligence our colleagues and our investors.
Savings targets are which allows us to work collaboratively aggressive, andongoing efforts to obtain with our suppliers and focus on innovation We buy a wide range of goods and efficiencies and lower our cost basehelp and other value-add initiatives.
services and need reliable, highto .
Key metrics are performing suppliers across all aspects The e-procurement tools that we are reported each month to a Divisional and of our supply chain.
Babcock seeks to implementing provide a faster and more Group Governance Board and approved ensure that our customers money is spent effective way of transacting with our by each Business Unit Finance Director.
efficiently and responsibly and that our supply base, resulting in sustainable supply contracts are managed effectively.
relationships that are based on Performance We expect our supply chain toadhere to operationally robust processes.
our standards of ethical behaviour, Building long-term relationships We want to spend time talking to our environmental, health and safety We are always looking for better, suppliers about new ideas, operational and other working practices.
innovative ways of serving our customers.
performance and total cost opportunities Our responsibility is to provide them with not about payment.
We understand Profit the best options to ensure success.
When the importance of predictable customer we identify a more efficient way of Profit is largely delivered through payments when running a business.
That servicing their requirements we discuss our ability to manage our operations is why Babcock is a signatory in the UK to these options and work in collaboration effectively.
A significant part of this is the Prompt Payment Code and we would with the customer to bring efficiency driven through our relationships with encourage others in our supply chain to benefits while delivering a quality service.
Over 50% of our cost base is make the same commitment.
via third party suppliers and our approach The Procurement and Supply Chain team Delivering business critical and ability to manage these relationships is actively engaged in the bidding process supportusing high-performing, impacts our ability to deliver performance with existing and new customers.
This ethical suppliers and margin.
enables us to bring the most effective Our customers rely on our ability to offer to our customers.
We are often Over the past year, we havelooked provide a robust and effective supply able to leverage existing arrangements forsupplier efficiencies across the chain.
We take this responsibility very to offer a cost effective solution.
This has included seriously and work in collaboration with contract efficiencies through up-front Suppliers other industry leaders to create a process procurement, involvement in the bid We believe that establishing long-term that optimises risk management while process, operational productivity through relationships with our suppliers is an encouraging the use of SMEs.
Potential increased innovation and quality, and important part of building long-term suppliers must demonstrate their streamlined internal processes.
As financial, commercial and technical Babcock has implemented a rigorous part of a structured programme across capability to meet our contractual programme across our procurement and business units and group categories, the requirements.
We also look for a clear supply chain function.
The objective has procurement and supply chain function is demonstration of commitment to been to drive best practices across the raising commercial capability by engaging corporate social responsibility.
As a result of this initiative, in supplier relationship management procurement is engaging earlier in order programmes with strategic suppliers.
to help provide our customers with the Our supply base is over 10,000, however, best possible solution while improving we have strategic relationships with c 250 profitability.
Early pre-bid engagement by suppliers.
By building an appropriate the procurement function allows our bid engagement model with our suppliers, teams to understand potential market we are able to effectively drive quality capabilities, while engagement as part and innovation across our supplier base.
of the team means we can aim to put Strategic suppliers are key partners in our together a proposal for the customer ability to deliver quality service.
As a result, that meets the needs and requirements we work closely with these suppliers to of the customer in the most efficient ensure optimal performance, ongoing way possible, while establishing supplier improvement and innovation support.
relationships that are robust and We continue to develop end-to-end sustainable in the long term.
procurement tools that enable us to transact efficiently with our suppliers.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 58 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Protecting the information and physical We expect high standards of conduct assets of our customers is an increasingly from our suppliers in what they do for important part of what we do.
We always us or our customers and will not accept expect the highest controls of commercial any behaviour contrary to our codes, confidentiality.
For certain types of supply including bribery, corruption and fraud, we are developing exacting standards of threats to health and safety, conflicts of security compliance.
For these companies interest and other improper practices.
we need to be certain that information is We pre-qualify suppliers for certain well managed and protected throughout typesof supply before admitting them the supply chain.
tothe supply chain, and this involves satisfying ourselves that they can meet Supporting local economies by using our standards.
Certain suppliers will be diverse, locally procured services selected for audit and close monitoring We take our responsibility to support local based on risk assessment or supplier economies seriously.
Planned reviews of of what we do means that we depend supplychain risk are undertaken on a wide range of talents and abilities by ourbusinesses.
from a wide range of suppliers.
As part of our supplier programme, we have Babcock is a key member of the joint been managing compliancethrough MOD industry initiative to deliver an ourpreferred suppliers.
This approach effective Defence Cyber Protection is enhancing our supplier relationships Partnership DCPP.
The group is tasked and allows us to focus on effective with improving the protection of the management of our SME supplier base.
defence supply chain from cyber threat.
Babcock is represented on working groups Supplier credibility, responsibility, quality for each of the three core work strands: and service performance matter.
Many information sharing, measurements and of our suppliers are small and medium standards, and supply chain awareness.
We select and manage A primary objective has been to define suppliers to support our own experienced a number of risk-based controls to be workforce in delivering complex, critical applied across the relevant supplier base.
and often bespoke engineering services.
We continuously review whether our Diversification of supply where possible suppliers comply with the standards makes our supply chain more robust in set forth in our Code of Conduct.
In helping us to deliver for our customers.
the reporting year, we simplified and Critical supply partner for standardised these procedures in line through-life support with the criteria in the anti-corruption Joint teams from Babcock and our and competition compliance policy.
supplychain engage together on a Consequently, the self-assessment process widerange of issues such as maintenance for suppliers was updated.
In addition to planning, supply support, support and test the self-assessment initiative, we now equipment, training and training devices, require additional evidence which gives and technical data.
Targeted supply us objective, verifiable supplier ratings.
relationships use data dashboards to Babcock is committed to creating a safe monitor performance and progress.
working environment which aims toenable Babcock is actively involved with our all those working on, or visiting, Babcock suppliers in the Aerospace, Defence operations to be able to return Home Safe andSecurity Supply Chain Every Day.
We seek to work only with developmentprogramme.
suppliers who we believe are able to both We also lead dialogue with Government, meet and promote our standards those suppliers and skills agencies to help that share our commitment to safe address the skills requirement agenda, behaviour and performance in delivering with the aim of ensuring that there are services and solutions for our customers.
enough people with the right skills to Our teams aim to work with suppliers on fill our own vacancies and those in our safety and share continuous improvement supplychain.
practices to reduce or prevent accidents and injuries.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 59 Sustainability continued People and Potential As our business expands, the development increase the ease of making an Encouraging young people into the of our people is a critical part of our application and further streamline the engineering sector through leading business strategy.
To underpin and move fromcandidate to employee.
apprentice and graduate programmes sustainour long-term strategic growth, Our graduate and apprenticeship We deploy a number oftechniques to Babcock must ensure that it has the right schemes are intended to support business motivate the workforce.
To check that people to be able and trusted to deliver requirements with the aim of securing the we are achieving our objective, we seek tocustomers on technically complex, skills and expertise we need now and in feedback from our employees via a long-term contracts, both today and the future, and we seek to provide as number of routes, for example, an in thefuture.
We aim to achieve this many opportunities as those International employee forum and by continually improving our talent requirementsjustify.
We use the management arrangements.
Our Group feedbackto identify anyareas for With regard to graduates, we recruited Director ofOrganisation and Development improvementandthen develop action 195 graduates for the 2015 16 intake coordinates this activity across the Group.
plans to address these matters.
under ourGroup graduate programme Our business arrangements require us In addition to the training and 2014 15:186. todeliver services across an array of development provided at divisional and At the date of this report, we expect projects and assets.
Our people need business unit level we have Group-wide to recruit over200 graduates for the to have a range of experience, skills and management development resources: 2016 17 intake.
In addition to our competencies: engineering, management, Babcock offers an MBA programme to Groupgraduate scheme, we recruit technical, commercial, administrative our high potential employees.
We have manygraduates directly to anddevelopmental, to name but a few.
continued our commitment to this managementpositions.
Werecognise that it is the skills and programme and currently have two commitment of our employees that At 31 March 2016, there were714 cohorts progressing through it defineour uniqueness and our ability apprentices across the Group 2015: 622 todeliver services to ourcustomers.
The Babcock Academy, run in of whom232 were recruited during conjunction with Strathclyde University theyear 2015: 206.
The increase in Planning for growth and succession since 2005, continues to provide a numberssince last year demonstrates the Succession planning is a key focus structured framework for our managers commitment we have to apprenticeship throughout the businesses, from to improve their managerial skills and training.
Of those completing their apprentices to Board level.
We have strategic awareness training over 93.3% 2015: 85.8% were plans in place that identify immediate appointed into substantive roles within Each division has identified talent and or future potential successors to key the Group.
pools and reviews their development senior management posts.
We also have on a quarterly basis In addition to our well established individual training and development intermediate and advanced plans for those identified.
We are also considering how development apprenticeship programmes, through apprenticeshipscan support the Through our annually refreshed future ongoing development of our existing resource planning process we assess workforce.
We are therefore piloting whether we have the right number Increase in apprentices a Level 4 management apprenticeship of staff with the necessary skills and with existing staff this year.
capabilities, for both now and in the future.
This process is based on data and assumptions such as workforce 15% demographics, attrition and business growth and feeds our future focused People and Potential resourcing strategies.
In October we held this years DialogueConference to discuss and Focus on recruitment, retention support diversity.
We continued to focus and development of talent on gender diversity whilst also looking We recognise that an employees more widely at issues of ethnicity, disability relationship with Babcock starts before and sexual orientation, challenging our they even apply to us.
Avariety of unconscious bias and how we can make advertising routes are used to ensure the changes to improve diversity among vacancies are marketed to the widest our workforce.
Our processes are The event proved insightful, progressive constantly reviewed to ensure that and paved the way for a dynamic future candidates experience a professional, for Babcock.
It was also a useful opportunity efficient and friendly recruitment and to share best practice acrossthe divisions.
A new computer system has recently been implemented to Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 60 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 this year we have launched higher level the best candidates based on their that it is executives that set the tone and culture of an organisation and their apprenticeships in engineering and ability to do the job.
Working with these support at this level will support our management with47 apprentices expectations for diversity enables us to diversity agenda.
We have now become currently on-programme.
To support the deliver our best for our customers and a founder member of UPstanding which continued growth of apprenticeships, to safeguard the future of Babcock.
champions equal opportunities for black, in the coming year we plan to launch Babcock operates principally in sectors Asian and minority ethnic group apprenticeships in digital risk and security that have until recently traditionally BAME employees.
been regarded as male, such as We continue to work towards the engineering and working with the Our commitment to the Armed Forces target of having 5% of our workforce on Armed Forces.
Inevitably, companies with In January, the Defence Secretary structured training schemes as part of this background will tend to be starting recognised Babcock as an employer our membership of the 5% Club.
We are from a level of relatively low female who has made an outstanding closer to our target this year and remain participation, especially in management commitment to supporting the Armed on track to exceed this commitment.
However, we are working hard Forces by presenting us with a Gold to change this: 18.9% 6,625 of our total Award from the Armed Forces Covenant Our Group-wide commitments workforce is female male 28,425, with Employer Recognition Scheme ERS.
to STEM 20.6% 137 female senior executives Weare committed to the Total Support As a Group we use a number of initiatives male 529, and two 16.7% female Force and actively recruit service leavers to promote activities which motivate and Director on our Board male 10. and reservists.
inspire young people to experience and We have continued towork on the understand the real world application challenges of being a woman within of Science, Technology, Engineering our organisation.
A series of actions and and Maths STEM subjects.
A variety of development programmes are being techniques have been deployed including implemented across the organisation training STEM ambassadors who volunteer following this.
We focus our graduate their time and support to promote STEM recruitment programme, particularly for subjects to young learners and providing engineering graduates, on those universities industry placements.
This means teachers that have a richer gender mix.
In 2016, from local schools spend a fortnight on 20% 2015: 22% of those employed on one of our sites gaining an insight into our graduate scheme were female.
Babcock, the type of work we undertake and the opportunities for young people.
Last year we became a member of Furthermore, a number of schools have OUTstanding, a not-for-profit professional been identified to pilot the STEM network for LGBT executives and their engagement year-long programme.
Like us, OUTstanding understand The feedback on this initiative from all parties has been very positive.
Total Senior Diversity 1 1 workforce Executive At Babcock, we believe diversity is diversity diversity aboutmore than age, race, colour, 2 2 ethnic origin, gender, marital status, religious or political beliefs, sexual orientation or disability.
Female 20.6% diversity is also about embracing the 2.
Male 79.4% advantages different experiences, skills and outlooks can bring.
Our diversity initiative, All together different, is championed by a Diversity Steering Group, which coordinates the Board diversity Graduate 1 1 implementation of our equality and diversity diversity policy.
2 2 Equal opportunities and awareness of diversity arepart ofour talent management system.
Female 20% imperative that we ensure access to the 2.
Male 80% widest pool of talent available, selecting Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 61 0.19 0.18 0.18 0.17 0.21 0.22 1.92 2.23 2.51 2.64 2.65 2.86 Sustainability continued Environment and Ethics Our commitment to strict ethical Ensuring safety Performance conduct together with the importance Tragically, one of our colleagues in our Safety governance we place on health and safety and our South African business lost their life Health and safety is a core value in our respect towards the wider society and following a motor vehicle accident business.
Our Group-wide goal is that environment in which we work are the inJanuary 2016. everybody goes home safe every day.
Toachieve this, we invest in safety, We have seen a 14% reduction in total providing suitable resources, training injuries per 100,000 hours worked Ethics and governance andtime.
over the last year, whilst our RIDDOR We understand that our reputation and Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and good name are amongst our greatest We also expect our managers toset Dangerous Occurrences Regulations assets, which could easily be lost by personallya good example, listening to 1995 rate has increased from 0.18 to actualor suspected corrupt or unethical and involving others.
We do nottake 0.19 per 100,000 hours worked.
To protect the Company shortcuts when it comes to safety.
and reduce these risks we have set out Reducing environmental impacts We recognise that the work environment a policy on how we should conduct is constantly changing so we regularly whilst continuing to grow business, which we summarise in the form review how we work to ensure it is the Our commitment to the management of the Babcock Code of Business Conduct.
We aim to share our of our environmental impacts and Compliance with this policy is compulsory know-how, ideas, experiences, successes energy use remains ever important.
for our employees, business advisers and failures so we can continue to learn The introduction of the Energy Savings and business partners or, in the case of and improve.
Opportunity Scheme ESOS legislation business advisers and partners, they must saw the business audit and review energy Divisional safety leadership teams have equivalent standards and procedures use across its built estate, processes and safety steering groups oversee in their own businesses.
The policy and business transport and achieve implementation of policy, strategy and comprises a detailed manual, available compliance for all its UK operations.
initiatives across all of our businesses.
on the Groups intranet, that contains The resulting opportunities for energy guidelines, authorisation and other Monthly performance reports are issued savings and efficiencies identified will procedures aimed at identifying and to the Group Executive Committee and now be carefully reviewed to form a reducing corruption and ethical risks.
half-yearly safety reviews are issued to project programme to target the most The controls that we have inplace form theBoard for discussion.
effective measures and make reductions an integral part of our risk management in its energy consumption and reduce arrangements and includethe training carbon emissions.
of employees and availability of whistleblowing hotlines.
1 RIDDOR rate per 100,000 Total injury rates per 100,000 More details of these risk management hours worked hours worked procedures can be found on pages64 to 66, and the Ethics Policy and Code of Business Conduct on our website.
Further information about our whistleblowing process can be foundonpage 66.
Human rights As an international business we 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 1.92 0.19 recogniseour responsibility for upholdingand protecting the humanrights of our employees and 2 otherindividuals with whom we deal 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 inour operations across the world.
Total number of injuries 1,962 1,974 2,010 1,979 2,054 2,084 Wewelcome the opportunity we have Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 1 tocontribute positively to global efforts Major injuries 22 30 30 36 41 38 to ensure that human rights are Over-three-day injuries 131 123 102 98 127 164 understood and observed.
We believe 1 that a culture of respect for, and RIDDOR totals 153 153 132 134 168 202 promotion of, human rights is embedded 1.
In 2012 the UK Health and Safety Executive changed RIDDOR reporting from time lost through throughout our business and can be injury from three days to seven days.
We have, however, continued to monitor and report on demonstrated by our commitment to the lower three-day threshold.
ethical conduct in everything we do.
Incidents relating to Mission Critical Services are included for the first time for the 2015 16 period.
Additionally, Babcock DSG, acquired 31 March 2015, is included.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 62 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 This year sees Babcock renewing its to LEDs, replacing old maintenance certification to the Carbon Trust Standard vehicles with electric vans and for the fourth consecutive year.
Each improvingthe site Building Energy time we have sought to collect and Management System, achieved a include more of our emissions data for 10%reduction in its carbon footprint assessment.
As theGroup has grown the atatime when the site could not emissions arising from our business travel bebusier.
have become increasingly significant so Devonport Dockyard undertook a we are looking to report on these more Battle of the Buildings challenge to comprehensively, not only on those see who could save the most energy generated by road travel but also overthe Christmas period.
With 38 by rail and air as well.
buildings taking part, the overall Simply collecting and collating key estimated savings for the site, by environmental data for such a large switching off unnecessary electricity anddiverse company is a huge and heating, were 1MW of energy and The MOD Phoenix White Fleet project undertaking and we have recently a reduction in carbon emissions of 470 team continue to target ways to begunto implement the use of a central tonnes.
One building, S113, achieved an reduce the environmental impact of software-based system to allow us to outstanding 86% reduction in energy our activities.
Theteam have implemented automatically upload and report on some consumption for the period.
a Carbon Reduction Initiative, with 10,800 trees planted across 22 acres of marginal of our energy consumption data.
We have Network Engineering, working with their land to capture carbon and offset some been able to refine and improve the data Procurement, Design and Engineering 3,000 tonnes 8% of the CO produced 2 as well as its classification, and have teams, have focused on responsible by the vehicle fleet.
The Smart Buildings rebased our 2015 figures in the Total sourcing, reuse and recycling of materials Project is also forecast to deliver a 20% Group Emissions chart on the same on their worksites.
Together with their reduction in energy usage across our estate basisas this year for consistency.
and the Renewable Energy strategy includes waste management partners, they renewable energy source implementation In the longer term the software system introduced recycling facilities to their feasibility studies across our estate will enable theCompany to record and fixed sites leading to a 42% increase during2016.
report on much more of its environmental in recycling.
Significant improvements data including for example, water, waste, in site waste management practices corporate social responsibility initiatives also led to better segregation of waste and even purchased goods and services.
streams resulting in an increase in Babcocks many overseas businesses will materials diverted from landfill and also be encouraged to use this data recycled to over 90%.
collection and reporting system, allowing them bothto achieve compliance in their own countries and to meet UK company reporting requirements.
As a globalgroup, Babcock recognises the importance of Total Group emissions UKand overseas applying good environmental practices March March right across the business and ensuring Year ending 2015 2016 that the highest standards are achieved wherever the Company operates.
Scope 1: Direct emissions from owned controlled operations tCO e 42,091.24 94,538.84 2 In the last year the Company has Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the use undertaken a large number of varied of purchased electricity, steam, heating initiatives to reduce its environmental and cooling tCO e 112,813.94 80,336.81 2 impacts.
Cavendish Nuclear have: used Scope 3: Emissions business travel tCO e 10,458.86 10,724.80 electric cars for business travel, totalling 2 8,770 miles and saving 1,357kg CO e: Absolute footprint tCO e 165,364.04 185,600.45 2 2 increased their use of rail travel by 29%: Turnover m 3,996.60 4,158.40 reduced their total business mileage by Intensity ratio tCO e m 41.38 44.63 2 15%, and achieved an overall reduction in their travel carbon footprint of 21%.
Babcock International Group Carbon Footprint Tonnes CO e against m turnover.
Due to 2 thehighly diverse nature of the Companys business the metric of tonnes of CO e per m 2 Rosyth Dockyard, through its turnover has been used to provide a more meaningful measure of energy use throughout implementation of Targeted Carbon thebusiness.
The total emissions from Scope 1, 2 and 3 sources have been divided by the annualturnover to provide a final benchmark figure.
The figures above include certain reduction initiatives such as upgrading operationsthat we have managed to capture for the first time during this year and lighting in manufacturing bays and offices prior year numbers have been rebased accordingly.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 63
