BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 54 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is a key enabler for our business, Corporate responsibility in action Continuously improving supporting sustainable long-term performance by standards of safety  risks that can impact reputation External recognition andshareholder value.
forhealth and safety Introduction We set global corporate responsibility priorities, performance which are enacted at a local level.
These are Our corporate responsibility programmes Naval Ships, part of our UK Maritime incorporated into objectives and programmes focus on: business, was awarded a Five Star for diversity and inclusion, business conduct, Award in Occupational Health and developing an inclusive, diverse safety, and the environment.
Safety following a British Safety workplacetodrive innovation and Councilaudit in December.
performance see page 22 : The audit involved an in-depth instilling responsible behaviour to be examination of our entire health and atrusted partner see page 55 : safety management systems and supporting customer confidence in our associated arrangements, focusing business by continuously improving onkey aspects of our approach to standards of safety for employees and those managing occupational health and using our products see page 56 : and safety.
Naval Ships exceeded in four outof five of the best practice proactively managing the environmental indicators, achieving 94%, which impacts of our facilities and products isratedas excellent and equates to toimprove efficiencies and cost savings themaximum five star award.
As a Five Star organisation, Naval Shipswill be eligible to apply for the 2017 Sword of Honour award, which recognises the best of the best in healthand safety management.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 55 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements 1 Trust and integrity Our policies and procedures require that all Enquiries to Ethics Helpline advisers are approved via our due diligence We aim to be recognised as a leader in 2016 process and authorised by an external panel.
This helps us to earn Advisers with whom businesses have an 2015 andmaintain stakeholder trust and sustain 1,148 ongoing relationship go through this process business success.
2013 1,043 We continue to build a culture where our We depend on suppliers to support our 2012 senior leaders and employees are empowered Anonymity rate 1,024 business and provide innovative and to make the right decisions and to know cost-effective products.
Our relationships where to go for help.
Our Code of Conduct withsuppliers are often long term due to sets out clear expectations on ethical conduct thelength of our product lifecycles, so we 21% 2015 26% and we offer training and support to help aimto build relationships with suppliers who people understand the right thing to do.
share our values and who embrace standards During 2016, we rolled out face-to-face ethics of ethical behaviour consistent with our own.
1 2016 enquiries to Ethics Helpline training that covered dilemmas based on real Our Procurement Policy specifically addresses issues that employees have faced across the ethical standards in our supply chain.
Employees also received additional our expectations for suppliers within our 2 225 training related to their specific role.
contracts and Supplier Principles Guidance 3 180 for Responsible Business, including standards Our Ethics Officers are appointed across 4 on ethical conduct, health and safety, 98 ourbusiness and provide face-to-face advice environment, and human rights.
5 and support on how to understand policies, 106 resolve issues and report concerns.
We remain committed to respecting the 1 Guidance and advice human rights of our employees in the Employees also have access to our 24-hour workplace and encourage our suppliers 2 Employee relations and conduct Ethics Helpline to ask for support or report 1 andbusiness partners to adopt the same 3 Management practices concerns anonymously.
There were 1,121 orsimilarly high standards of ethical callsto the Ethics Helpline in 2016, broadly 4 Accounting charges practices behaviour.
During 2016, we undertook consistent with the number of calls in 2015, 5 Other workto understand our human rights and our anonymity rate compares favourably impactsand thiswill continue into 2017. with peer companies.
Almost half of the Wehave also responded to the UK Modern ethicscontacts received are requests for Dismissals for reasons relating Slavery Act.
Ourstatement can be found guidance and advice.
employeesto contact us as early as possible when a potential incident canstill be 2016 We continue to work with peers across the 227 prevented by timely advice.
defence industry to improve ethical standards.
2015 257 During 2016, we continued to participate in All enquiries reported to Ethics Officers 2013 265 the International Forum on Business Ethical andviathe Ethics Helpline were reviewed 2012 292 Conducts Council and worked with the andreported either to the Ethics Review 2011 298 Institute of Business Ethics to set up a UK Committee or, in BAE Systems, Inc. to Defence Ethics Network.
Our governance framework sets out the 2017 priorities waywe do business and covers the products We will continue to build a culture we make and export, and our relationships ofresponsible behaviour by engaging with business partners, including advisers employees in annual ethics training andsuppliers.
andsupporting them in making the Our Responsible Trading Principles, rightdecisions.
We will also be ProductTrading Policy and Pursuit of reviewingand refreshing our Code ExportOpportunities Policy help employees ofConduct for launchin 2018. tomake informed decisions about the business opportunities we pursue and require evaluation and approval of trading risks.
For further information, seeour Corporate responsibility summary baesystems.
See summary of Deloitte LLP assurance onpage57.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 56 Corporate responsibility continued Health and safety We want our employees to be healthy at work Recordable Accident Rate 1 which depends on good health at home too.
per100,000 employees The safety of our employees, and those KPI We operate wellbeing programmes to address whowork on, or visit, our sites, remains a BONUS 2016 580 this, which may include health risk assessments priority for the Company.
Our safety culture and campaigns to encourage employees to 2015 732 and our customers demand extremely high take responsibility for their health, including standards for all aspects of health and safety.
addressing risk factors for health problems 1 Many of our employees operate heavy Major injuries recorded such as heart disease, diabetes and cancer.
equipment, work at height or do physicallyBONUS 2016 demanding work in high-risk environments 39 Our Employee Assistance Programme is a and confined spaces.
2015 53 confidential service available to employees and includes support and advice on We aim to mitigate or manage safety risks personalmatters.
byfinding new ways to enhance safety standards, increase awareness and continually drive a strong safety culture.
Managers across 2017 priorities our businesses are supported by teams of We will continue to: drive towards a health and safety specialists who provide world-class level of safety performance: expert advice, training and tools to put our focus on the management and reduction of safety policies into practice.
safety risk: and drive a strong safety culture through communication, awareness and We use the Recordable Accident Rate to visible leadership.
We will target a 10% measure workplace injuries.
This metric, reduction in the Recordable Accident Rate.
alongwith the number of major injuries, is used to determine an element of executive bonus see page 87.
There was a 21% reduction in the Recordable Accident Rate in 2016, representing an improvement against target.
In addition, there was a 26% reduction in the total number of major injuries recorded in the year as we continued to focus on reducing risk and embedding safety culture todrive improvement.
Corporate responsibility in action Promoting good mental health intheworkplace We are committed to reducing the stigma Employee ofmental ill-health in the workplace and weprovide a range of support services andinitiatives.
During Mental Health wellness and Awareness Week in the UK, we raised awareness of the help the Group provides wellbeing toemployees through the services of occupational health, the Employee Assistance Programme and flexible workingpolicies.
In Australia, we support theR U OK?
This year, we held a series of R U OK?
events to encourage our employees to regularly reach out to and make time for other people.
These included breakfasts, morning teas and mental health informationsessions.
com BONUS 5% of the UK executive directors bonuses arebased on the achievement of safety KPIs see page 87.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 57 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Resource efficiency Deloitte LLP assurance We are committed to minimising the Deloitte LLP has provided limited Greenhouse gas emissions environmental impact of our operations.
assurance onthe following data from 1 November 2015 to performance indicators at Resource efficiency is an important measure Grouplevel: 31 October 2016 tonnes CO e 2 ofbusiness effectiveness at BAE Systems and is embedded within our Environment Policy.
Diversity total employees split Combustion of fuel within BAESystems As amajor manufacturer, our operations bygender and age: 1 facilities and vehicles Scope 1 havean impact on the environment from Ethics employee and third-party the energy and resources we use to the 2016 579,880 enquiries toEthics Helpline and wastethat we generate.
Minimising this 2015 596,515 dismissals for reasons relating to impact shrinks our environmental footprint unethical behaviour: and reduces our operating costs.
Electricity and steam purchased for 1 Safety Recordable Accident Rate BAESystems use Scope 2 location-based Each of our businesses sets annual targets and the number of major injuries touse resources as efficiently as possible 2016 571,859 recorded: witha focus on energy, water andwaste.
2015 607,876 Environment greenhouse gas We are improving energy efficiency and emissions total, and Scope 1, 2 fide-carbonising our energy supply to reduce Business travel in non-BAESystems and 3 : and 1 greenhouse gas emissions.
The nature of vehicles Scope 3 ourbusiness, with large-scale projects and Community total value of 2016 146,511 fluctuations in orders, makes it challenging Community Investment 2015 147,809 toset a global emissions reduction goal.
Weset energy targets at business level 1 Total greenhouse gas emissions thatcontribute to an overall reduction.
More online 2016 The majority of our greenhouse gas emissions 1,298,250 To see Deloitte LLPs come from the energy we use across our 2015 1,352,200 unqualified assurance facilities.
The Groups total greenhouse gas statement visit emissions decreased by 4% in the 12 months baesystems.
com Total greenhouse gas emissions 2  to 31 October 2016. peremployee To see our Basis of We use our engineering expertise to improve 2016 Reporting 2016 visit 17 resource efficiency and make our products baesystems.
We work to reduce environmental impacts at every stage of Methodology theirlifecycle from concept, design and The greenhouse gas emissions data is reported in line with the manufacture through to use and disposal.
Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Operational Control approach, and emission factors for fuels and electricity are taken from the UK governments 2017 priorities Department for Environment Food & Rural Affairs DEFRA, published at www.
co. uk We will continue to drive improvements The CO e associated with carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous 2 inthe management of materials and oxide is reported.
Greenhouse gas emissions associated with hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride resources across all businesses.
are estimated to be immaterial to total emissions and are, therefore, not reported.
The principal record of the Groups worldwide facilities isits Community investment legal departments Global Property Database.
Greenhouse gas emissions are primarily calculated from Globally, we and our employees, through energyconsumption records reported via the Groups global theCommunity Investment programme, environmental database.
Where actual usage data is not available 1 for facilities and residences within the Global Property Database, contributed more than 11m during 2016 an estimated consumption is used based on the type of building.
tolocal, national and international charities Greenhouse gas emissions related to business travel include air and not-for-profit organisations.
travel data for the majority of the global business and rail data for business units operating in the UK and US.
These data are taken from travel suppliers procurement records.
Emissions from joint ventures and pension scheme properties notoccupied by the Group are not included.
Where a business orfacility is acquired during a reporting year, it will be included inour reporting in the next full reporting year after the change.
The Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions associated withthe Greenhouse GasProtocol market-based method have been calculated as 638,772 tonnes CO e. Supplier-specific emission 2 factors have been sought for our most significant operating regions, but were either deemed of insufficient quality to use atpresent or were unavailable.
Therefore, in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol guidance, this figure has been calculated using residual-mix emission factors where available for our UK and US operations.
Inour other significant operating regions, residual-mix emission factors are either unavailable or within the margin of error of the standard grid average emission factor and, therefore, the latter has been used.
See summary of Deloitte LLP assurance above.
Excluding share of equity accounted investments.
