BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 76 Corporate Responsibility Committee report Members Ian Tyler Ian Tyler Chairman Chairman of the Corporate Harriet Green Responsibility Committee Chris Grigg Dear Shareholders, Ethical behaviour In 2015, we saw a reduction in the overall This year, the Committee carried out a review incident rate but, unfortunately, there was also On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to of the processes in place to help ensure that an increase in major injuries.
The Committee, present the Corporate Responsibility the Company only takes on business that is therefore, reviewed the major individual injury Committee report.
The aim of the report is consistent with its standards of integrity.
incidents in depth to understand whether toprovide you with a view of the key activities Thisis governed by our Product Trading Policy there were lessons learned that could be undertaken by the Committee during the year, a principles-based approach to evaluating shared across the Company.
In support of our areas of focus and what we plan to do business opportunities requiring any thesafety agenda, the Committee also in2017.
responsible trading risks to be identified as lookedat how the performance objectives At the beginning of 2016, the Committee part of a structured decision-making process.
could be used to drive actions and behaviours agreed a business plan which set out our The Committee carried out a deep dive into to support a reduction in the significant risks mainareas of focus.
This allowed us to the way in which our Applied Intelligence at our sites this being key to achieving schedule sufficient time to carry out deep-dive business has augmented its business-winning long-term sustainable improvement.
An important factor in processes to incorporate the requirements of Safety is one of the performance measures the success of these reviews is ensuring that this policy and how it has tailored the process within the Annual Incentive Plan, which we meet with the right people from within to its particular business model.
In particular, applies to the executive directors and also theCompany and hear directly from them we considered the escalation steps that would toall senior executives across the Company.
From them we be used if a decision needed to be referred Atthe end of 2016, the Committee reviewed canunderstand more about the practical upwards, ultimately to the Board.
safety performance at Group level and that of implications of implementing our policies.
The Committee also reviewed the governance our principal businesses, and recommended Thisis particularly important as we operate procedures for our overseas markets.
The the level of achievement to be recognised in across a number of countries and cultures Company has a network of regional business the incentive plan.
andthis can have an impact on the roll-out development offices that act as the first port and embedding of Company-wide policies.
In September, the Committee carried out ofcall for any business unit seeking to do adeep dive into the safety culture in our This year we have carried out detailed business in that region or country, and it is businesses in Saudi Arabia and Australia.
reviewson the following: safety: ethical important that we have a consistent and Weare an international business and we behaviour: product safety: and diversity robust approach to how we do business operate in many different countries, each andinclusion.
I will discuss each of these inallparts of the world.
The Committee ofwhich has individual challenges when topics through this report.
spenttime discussing the management of itcomesto embedding our safety culture.
overseas offices with our head of business Safety InSaudi Arabia and Australia, we operate developmentand chief legal counsel who Safety is one of our principal areas of focus sitesacross a broad geographical area.
and will remain so even though we are Thiscan present a challenge for the local making steps towards achieving world-class Product safety management team to communicate performance in some of our businesses.
The Each year, the Committee reviews the Product effectivelya consistent message on safety Committee has worked with management Safety Policy.
The integrity of our supply chain andto ensure that we are sharing best todevelop an understanding of what is crucial to our ability to provide high-quality practice.
Despite these challenges, the world-class safety performance looks like products and services to our customers.
We Committee was pleased to hear about andhas agreed an approach to how all our must, therefore, seek assurance at each stage theprogress that was being made.
businesses can challenge themselves to of a products lifecycle to ensure that our improve in this area.
This includes the targets quality and ethical standards are being met.
that are set for achievement at a Group level and the timeframe over which these are to beachieved.
It is important that targets are realistic, but also drive continual improvement in the most effective way.
The Committee isparticularly interested in how best practice isshared, how change is implemented and embedded, and how we record information on safety and learn from it.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 77 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Diversity and inclusion Corporate responsibility in action Last year, I reported that we were reviewing Developing first-hand understanding how the Company planned to create a more of corporate responsibility diverse and inclusive workforce.
The nurturing In 2016, the Committee took the opportunity of our talent pipeline continues to be a key Site visit to to visit two of the key UK manufacturing driver towards the long-term goal of bringing sites, Warton and Samlesbury, Lancashire.
greater diversity into our senior management Each year, we schedule a full-day visit as it and executive teams.
This is a long-term process Samlesbury gives an opportunity for the Committee to which starts with the choices made by schooldevelop a first-hand understanding of the leavers and, therefore, general changes in the andWarton corporate responsibility successes and industry as a whole will take time to filter challenges across the business.
This continues organically into the Company demographic.
to be a valuable addition to the calendar The Company is looking at what action it can asitallows us to meet with management take to support and drive the pace of this andemployees from different areas of the change.
As a Committee, we considered the business.
The focus of this visit was on overall objective at Group level and what action corporate culture and how the diversity can be taken to support this.
During 2017, we andinclusion agenda is being progressed plan to spend more time looking at the way bythe Military Air & Information business.
this is approached at business unit level.
We visited the newly-opened Academy The agenda for the upcoming year will be forSkills & Knowledge at Samlesbury and developed to support the Committee in its discussed with the management team understanding of the corporate responsibility therecruitment approaches and training challenges facing the business.
During the year, theCommittee has also reviewed the As you can see opposite, in 2016, we visited ProductSafety Policy and the visit afforded two of our UK military aircraft sites.
Such visits usthe opportunity to discuss how this is are a great way for members of the Board to implemented practically and the questions get out of the boardroom and engage directly that need to be asked when making More online with employees.
We will be doing more of this baesystems.
Ian Tyler Chairman of the Corporate  The Corporate Responsibility Committees year February June December Committee Committee Committee London, UK Washington DC, US London, UK Commercial and Procurement policy update.
Review of overseas governance processes.
Review of annual lobbying report.
Review of performance against the safety Review of Product Trading Policy.
Overview of current and emerging issues Review of 2017 corporate responsibility September forthe Corporate Responsibility Committee audit review programme.
Committee Set safety objectives for 2017.
Baltimore, Maryland, US Product trading review, focusing on AppliedIntelligence.
Safety review, focusing on the  group.
Corporate Responsibility Committee timeline February June September December Committee Committee Committee Committee
