BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 22 Our people Diversity Reward Retaining and recruiting Diversity encourages creativity, drives We provide our employees with competitive talented people from innovation and better equips us to solve our reward packages which reflect their individual customers complex challenges.
We are responsibilities and contribution to business thewidest possible talent committed to creating an inclusive environment performance, and we recognise individual and poolisakey priority.
with a diverse workforce, which reflects the team successes.
Employees are offered a range communities we work in.
of benefits, including employee share schemes, throughout their careers with the Company.
We have programmes in place across the business to improve diversity and inclusion, Engagement including unconscious bias training, mentoring Employee engagement enables our employees programmes, increasing female representation to contribute to improving business performance in senior roles and lesbian, gay, bisexual and and helps us to gauge our performance in transgender employee networks.
In 2016, our creating an environment in which everyone Chief Executive established a global council can fulfil their potential.
ondiversity and inclusion to progress strategic workforce planning across the business.
We keep employees informed about what ishappening across the business, including In 2017, we will commence gender pay gap Company results, major business decisions reporting in accordance with the UKs andother matters which affect them, using legislative requirements, including a narrative avariety of media, including our intranet and to explain the actions we are taking to address e-mail, through podcasts, newsletters and gender diversity within our UK workforce.
leadership blogs, and also through team briefs and team meetings where we seek to listen Development Gender diversity toemployees views and opinions.
Employees We want to enable every employee to have the opportunity to provide feedback Male Female reachtheir full potential and feel rewarded through our engagement surveys.
We support this through 73% 27% ourcomprehensive career frameworks, The Group welcomes employees becoming 1,2 Senior managers development programmes and the breadth shareholders in BAE Systems and offers 283 52 84% 16% ofour operations around the world.
employee share plans to support this.
3,4 Total employees 61,000 15,000 In some markets, there is a shortage of We seek to maintain constructive relationships 80% 20% qualified engineering and technology skills.
with our trade unions in the UK and Australia, We are encouraging more young people and our labour unions in the US.
toconsider careers in Science, Technology, 3,4 Engineering and Mathematics STEM to fill Age diversity this gap and support our future growth, and 24 years and 60 years have a number of initiatives to support the younger and older promotion of STEM subjects and careers for 5,000 5059 8,000 Award-winning training young people in our markets.
years 2534 23,000 years Our apprenticeship and graduate programmes 15,000 aim to attract topengineering talent into our business.
In theUK, we are one of the biggest recruiters ofapprentices and our training programme wasrated outstanding by the Office for Standards in Education Ofsted.
During 2016, we recruited 667 apprentices and higher-level apprentices, and 289 graduates in the UK.
At 31 December 2016, we had over 2,000 apprentices in training 3549 across our UK business, 6% of the workforce.
years 25,000 Our UK apprenticeship programme was awarded Our focus onprofessional development the new Princess Royal Training Award in 2016 throughout our employees careers supports for excellence in delivering skills for business their continued personal and professional performance.
The award recognises that growth, and ensures that we have the apprentices are a key element of our talent skillstomeet our customers current and pipeline and are given exceptional enrichment future requirements.
Our support to young unemployed people through work experience under The 1.
Senior managers are defined as employees excluding executive directors who have responsibility for planning, Princes Trust Movement to Work programme directingor controlling the activities ofthe Group or a was also recognised and has led to many full-time strategically significant part of the Group and or who roles in our business.
The judges also commended aredirectors of subsidiary companies.
our leadership in the engineering sector for our 2.
development of new standards for engineering 3.
Excluding share of equity accounted investments and rounded to the nearest thousand employees.
See summary of Deloitte LLP assurance on page 57.
