Our culture and our people and the energy, commitment and passion of our colleagues enhances our success We are four years into a cultural change journey at Barclays and we have a clear set of values that guide how we work and how we act.
We are continuing to make progress to further embed and sustain a valuesbased culture through initiatives aimed at strengthening the profession of banking.
We recognise that fostering the right culture at Barclays is critical to our success and we want to play a leading role in defining the future of banking, restoring trust and respect for our profession.
We have placed continued focus on the importance of a values-based culture and with that in mind, conduct, culture and values were established as part of our key strategic priorities for the year.
Throughout 2016 we have launched a number of initiatives to foster the right culture at Barclays and we developed a culture measurement framework, anchored in our values, to measure and manage progress in embedding a values-based culture across the organisation.
We also seek to share across different parts of the business the initiatives that are having a positive impact on our culture and engagement of our employees.
Having constructive and empathetic Summary conversations with customers reflect our We recognise that fostering the right culture continued focus on a values-based culture.
at Barclays is critical to our success and we To ensure we constantly review and reappraise to see what is working, in want to play a leading role in defining the future 2016 the annual Your View survey became a quarterly pulse survey excluding Africa, providing colleagues the opportunity on a more of banking, restoring trust and respect for regular basis to say what they are experiencing and how it feels to work our profession.
In the third quarter of the year, we surveyed 50% of all colleagues and the remaining 50% were surveyed in the fourth quarter.
Starting from 2017, each quarter, 25% of colleagues excluding Africa will be invited to take part in Your View.
The Your View results have continued to measure Sustainable Engagement and this year we have been provided with more regular snapshots.
The quarterly results were then aggregated at the end of the year into an overall annual picture of engagement.
At the end of 2016, Sustainable Engagement of our colleagues has remained stable year-on-year at 75%.
The quarterly results of the Your View survey and the indicators and insights from our culture measurement framework help us to assess what we are doing well and guide and focus management action as required across our businesses and functions.
Each quarter the results are analysed in depth and our senior leadership teams across the businesses and functions work to identify relevant actions that will continue to foster a culture that builds the Barclays of the future.
The results from the Your View survey, and the insights from the quarterly indicators within the culture measurement framework, evidence that we continue to make strong progress in embedding a values-based culture across the bank.
Apply within, our internal mobility programme, and the Lets talk about how performance management campaign, both launched this year, are initiatives that support the behaviours that underpin our values.
The Lets talk about how campaign reinforces the importance that we place on both what our employees deliver and how they deliver.
A new event launched this year, sponsored by the Group CEO, this was a step forward in developing the next generation of enterprise leaders who actively contribute towards rebuilding the profession of banking through their own leadership and their influence of others.
By bringing together high potential senior leaders from across our businesses and functions we seek to strengthen collaboration and an enterprise-wide perspective amongst our senior leaders to deliver improved solutions and products for our customers and clients.
42 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Group control function rotation We recognise that our control functions are a critical part of our success and that it is important for our future leaders to understand how the functions operate and gain perspective of the Second Line of Defence, as part of our risk management responsibilities.
In May this year a control functions rotational pilot programme was launched by the Group CEO to support his ambition to strengthen the profession of banking.
This programme saw a group of colleagues from our CIB spend three months working in our Compliance function as an integrated member of the Compliance team in order to build a greater breadth of banking experience and to gain greater understanding and awareness of the control environment.
Presentations to the Group CEO and other senior leaders at the end of the rotation gave the group the opportunity to share what they learnt and the training they received, as well as provide insights on how the businesses and control functions can continue to embed a values-based culture.
The feedback from the participants is that the rotation helped to improve communication and understanding between the business and the control functions: has driven cross-divisional training: and encouraged internal mobility by highlighting alternative career paths.
In 2017, the number of participants will be increased and the programme will be expanded to include opportunities across other control functions.
For further information, on opportunities at barclays, please see joinus.
com Our Wellbeing programme: Barclays Shared Growth Ambition which focuses on access to employment, access to financial and digital empowerment and access to financing: as well as the Conversation Framework and Empathy Diagnostic launched in Barclays UK to support colleagues in having constructive and empathetic conversations with customers, reflect our continued focus on a values-based culture that ensures we do the right thing for our customers and clients.
Tristram Roberts Group Human Resources Director home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 43
