Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: People Culture and Values begin to develop the next generation of enterprise leaders who actively contribute towards rebuilding the profession of banking through their We are four years into a cultural change journey at Barclays.
Over this period we have defined a common set of values and embedded them own leadership and their influence of others.
By bringing together high potential senior leaders from across our businesses and functions we across the organisation, ensuring they are recognised and understood by our employees.
We recognise that fostering the right culture at seek to strengthen collaboration and an enterprise wide perspective amongst our senior leaders to deliver improved solutions and products Barclays is critical to our success and we have placed continued focus on the importance of a values based culture to the organisation.
Early in for our customers and clients.
2016 conduct, culture and values was established as one of the strategic We have continued to launch and refresh learning and leadership priorities for the year, and within that we have developed a culture initiatives with particular focus on supporting the development of line measurement framework to manage and measure progress in managers.
Examples include our Manager Excellence Programme, the embedding a values based culture across Barclays.
This framework is iLead programme for high potential Directors, and the Senior Leadership anchored in our values and through quarterly indicators and insights we Development programme in the Banking business.
All our leadership are able to assess what we are doing well and where we might need to development activities follow a common principle of leaders teaching focus attention and prioritise management action across our businesses leaders, creating opportunities for knowledge sharing across different and functions.
The quarterly indicators and insights are presented to the parts of Barclays.
Board Reputation Committee and the Group Executive Committee and shared with our senior leadership teams with a view to becoming an Early careers and apprenticeships integral part of our regular management reporting so that we can ensure Barclays is committed to helping people achieve their ambitions when our priorities and decisions are focused in the right areas.
The insights they enter the world of work whether they are a young person entering from the indicators and metrics within the culture measurement the workplace for the first time or an experienced professional seeking framework this year support the view that our ongoing efforts are to develop new skills.
Barclays Early Careers proposition includes having a positive impact in continuing to create a culture that will help graduate, internship and apprenticeship programmes and in 2016 we us build the Barclays of the future.
hired over 750 interns and 700 graduates.
Since 2012 we have created over 3,000 apprenticeships.
We provide pathways for progression from Your View apprentice to graduate supported by recognised qualifications and, in Engagement of our employees is one of the key indicators of cultural doing so, help to create an internal talent pipeline.
health and we recognise the importance of listening to our colleagues The ambition in 2016 for our apprenticeship programmes was to widen and maintaining an open, two-way dialogue.
The views of our colleagues shape the decisions we make, helping us create an environment in accessibility and ensure our programmes are fully inclusive.
We expanded our Bolder Apprenticeship Programme, targeting long-term which colleagues want to work, and which in turn we believe will drive high performance.
To ensure that we constantly review and reappraise unemployed adults over the age of 24, and we also piloted our Able to Enable Programme targeting the long-term unemployed who have a to see what is working, in 2016, the annual Your View survey, our employee opinion survey, became a quarterly pulse survey excluding disability.
These programmes along with our place on the UK Governments Apprenticeship Delivery Board reflect our commitment to Africa, providing colleagues the opportunity on a more regular basis to say how it feels to work at Barclays.
In the third quarter of the year, we tackling societal issues and attracting diverse talent.
Throughout 2016 we have continued to receive external recognition for our apprenticeship surveyed 50% of all colleagues and the remaining 50% were surveyed in the fourth quarter.
Starting from 2017, each quarter 25% of colleagues programmes.
excluding Africa will be invited to take part in Your View.
We have transformed the way we recruit for our EMEA Internship and Graduate programmes to deliver an improved candidate experience and The Your View results have continued to measure Sustainable Engagement and this year we have been provided with more regular to ensure that we are assessing candidates against the right skills and qualities.
This recruitment process helps to drive diversity and inclusion snapshots.
The quarterly results were then aggregated at the end of the year into an overall annual picture of engagement.
At the end of 2016 as students are able to demonstrate ability and potential throughout the process so that recruitment outcomes are based on performance and Sustainable Engagement of our colleagues has remained stable year on year at 75%.
Areas of particular strength from the annual results not on the basis of academic grades, universities attended and previous work experience.
This year in the Americas we rolled out our first include: colleagues feeling safe to speak up 81% favourable, up 6% points on 2015 : colleagues feeling proud of the contribution Barclays Sophomore Springboard programme aimed at preparing a diverse range of students for an internship in their junior year.
This was the first makes to the community and society 88% favourable, up 3% points on 2015 and employees feeling respected regardless of their job 83% phase of a two year strategy to identify diverse talent early on.
In addition, the commitment and discretionary effort of employees continues to be very high with 94% Industrial relations Barclays has a long-standing partnership approach to industrial relations saying they believe they work beyond what is required of them to help Barclays succeed.
Along with the insights from the quarterly indicators and we value the relationships we have with over 30 trade unions, works councils and staff associations around the world.
Within the UK we have within the culture measurement framework, these results evidence that we continue to make strong progress in embedding a values based a formal partnership with Unite which has been in place for over 15 years and is one of the longest standing partnerships in the UK.
Throughout culture across the bank.
2016, we have continued to have regular, constructive dialogue with employee representatives on a wide range of topics that impact our Leadership and Learning Our leadership and learning solutions are underpinned by our values and employees in order to seek their feedback prior to implementation.
Regional consultation forums have also provided a platform for bringing are focused on supporting our colleagues to develop critical skills and capabilities.
Both the Barclays Academy and our Global Curriculum together and engaging employee representatives on a wide range of topics that affect the interests of our employees.
provide colleagues with development resources, through a variety of formats and content.
In 2016 our employees spent an average of 40 Managing change hours each on training through formal programmes, in addition to having access to many other informal learning opportunities that are not Where restructuring is necessary to support our strategy, we have consulted on proposals with our recognised trade unions or employee captured through our learning management system.
We continue to assess candidate alignment to our Values and Behaviours through our forums and impacted employees, prior to implementation.
In line with our Values and to ensure we treat all colleagues with respect, we seek to recruitment and promotion processes and we also ensure new joiners attend the Being Barclays Global Induction programme, which provides avoid compulsory redundancies wherever possible and we try to find ways in which we can achieve this during consultation.
We continue to an in-depth experience of the Values.
All colleagues are required to attest and demonstrate their understanding of expected behaviours through place significant emphasis on both voluntary redundancy programmes as well as internal redeployment through our Internals First programme.
the Global Code of Conduct The Barclays Way.
Internals First supports colleagues who have been impacted by change This year a new event was launched, sponsored by the Group CEO, to and provides individual support to ensure that we retain talent within home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 95 Governance: People Barclays.
In 2016, over 1,000 colleagues registered for Internals First interviews and talking points which are distributed to employees every quarter to coincide with Barclays financial reporting calendar.
They are support and we redeployed 32% of them within Barclays.
Throughout 2016, colleagues have attended Internals First careers and networking all designed to build awareness and understanding of Barclays results and the broader macroeconomic environment, and to drive dialogue.
events and opted for outplacement support services.
When an employee does leave Barclays as a consequence of restructuring, our commitment We also hold a variety of events for employees to hear directly from the CEO and the Group Executive Committee and to ask them questions.
is to ensure that they are given the best support for the next stage in their career.
To achieve this, Barclays provides a global career transition We have also recently introduced an Ask the Experts communication service which offers personalised advice and support for employees which gives perspectives from across the bank on what Barclays results placed at risk of redundancy.
We also hope to keep in touch with former mean and how they are received by different stakeholders.
Flagship colleagues through the Barclays Global Alumni Programme which campaigns are released to all employees each quarter, covering topics provides a platform for current and former employees to connect with such as wellbeing, recognition and dynamic working to raise awareness Barclays and one another through global networking events, monthly of the tools being introduced to help them develop their careers at e-newsletters and access to career opportunities.
Barclays and to provide them with the opportunity to understand and engage in employee initiatives.
Colleagues are also kept informed Internal Mobility through regular intranet and email updates about the progress Barclays During 2016 internal mobility has been a key focus.
Being able to attract is making across activity such as Diversity and Inclusion and and retain talented individuals, as well as provide them with the Performance Management.
opportunity to take control of their career and development at Barclays is one of our most important ambitions.
Our aim is that by supporting Employees are invited to share their opinion on what it is like to work at Barclays through regular interactive events with senior leaders.
These internal mobility across Barclays and making it simple and easy for colleagues to move internally, we are successfully retaining and developing events provide employees with the opportunity to discuss their perspective on a range of areas to help senior management understand our internal talent.
To promote this and provide colleagues with opportunities to broaden their experience, the Group CEO launched Apply what is working well and where we need to improve.
Any changes that are implemented as a result of colleague feedback are communicated Within, our internal mobility programme, early in 2016.
We have developed multiple tools and resources for colleagues to find new internal through leadership briefings and engagement initiatives across each business and function.
career opportunities and for managers to find and assess suitable internal candidates.
Global careers fairs, the Barclays Mentoring Tool and Diversity and Inclusion enhancements to the My Career online portal, which was launched in 2015, are part of the campaign.
Thousands of colleagues have visited the Barclays global Diversity and Inclusion D&I strategy establishes objectives, initiatives and plans across each of five core pillars: Gender, My Career portal this year to update career profiles, upload CVs and import LinkedIn profiles and our Resourcing teams have sought to match LGBT, Disability, Multicultural and Multigenerational.
As an organisation we remain focussed on increasing the diversity of our employees and by vacant roles to colleagues skills and aspirations.
We have increased our internal recruitment percentage to 48% firm wide excluding Africa.
continuing to foster an inclusive culture we seek to ensure that employees of all backgrounds are treated equally and have the Wellbeing opportunity to be successful.
By actively supporting employees to be healthy and happy, we will In recognition of this in 2016 we have continued to develop opportunities deliver better outcomes for colleagues, for Barclays and for society.
Our to attract and retain a diverse pipeline of talented employees across the global wellbeing programme Be Well launched in 2015 and has focused bank.
This year we have launched new initiatives including our Encore!
on health education, a Global Speaker Series, health risk identification, Returnship Programme which offers leadership development and prevention and management as well as new leadership and training opportunities to professionals who have taken a career break management programmes to help line managers support colleagues.
and are looking to re-enter the workforce.
Also launched in 2016 is our The insights developed this year through our wellbeing programme help Able to Enable apprenticeship initiative which targets the long-term to identify themes and areas to focus on in 2017. unemployed who have a disability.
Working with Remploy and by providing a bespoke, supportive selection process, which includes a 13 Performance Management week development experience, we hope to provide opportunities for this Barclays approach to performance management is key to enabling the population.
delivery of our strategy and to continue to embed a values-based culture.
Colleagues align their objectives what they will deliver to In June we announced enhancements to our US Leave of Absence business and team goals to support the delivery of our strategy and policies for Childcare and Military Leave, supporting our commitment to good customer outcomes.
Behavioural expectations how they will creating a diverse and inclusive environment through policies that help achieve their objectives are set in the context of our Values.
This year employees successfully integrate their profession and personal lives.
we have enhanced the focus on balancing the what and the how Providing leadership development to ensure we are continuing to build through the launch of our Lets talk about how campaign to remind an inclusive work environment is paramount to our diversity strategy colleagues that how they achieve their objectives is just as important as and in 2016 our Unconscious Bias Training, previously delivered to over what they achieve.
Both the campaign and the Values in Action 8,000 senior leaders, was deployed to our junior populations with over framework provide tools and resources for colleagues to bring to life the 1,900 attending workshops to date.
behaviours that underpin our Values and to enhance the quality of performance reviews.
We always have more to do, but are pleased when our progress towards greater inclusion is recognised.
During 2016, we continued to receive Our global recognition programme provides colleagues the opportunity national and international recognition from respected organisations such to recognise the outstanding achievements of those who have as the Business Disability Forum in the UK, Human Rights Campaign in demonstrated our Values.
We continue to see a year on year increase in the US and Community Business for our achievements, citing our D&I the number of colleagues receiving a Values Thank You message from work as innovative, robust and sustainable.
a fellow colleague, with over 250,000 sent in 2016.
Colleagues are also encouraged to be involved with the companys Gender performance by participating in our all-employee share plans, which Sustaining progress towards increasing female representation at all have been running successfully for over 10 years.
Further details of our levels across Barclays remains a core focus of our talent management approach to remuneration are included in the Remuneration Report and leadership succession processes.
Across our organisation and the pages 105 and 106. financial services industry we hope to see more females in senior roles and we are determined to enable women to fulfil their career aspirations.
Barclays regularly updates employees regarding the financial and As referenced in the Board Nominations Committee section on page 80 economic factors affecting the companys performance throughout the we revised our Board Diversity Policy in 2015 to reflect our new target of year, using a variety of communications channels.
These include CEO minimum 33% female representation on our Board by 2020.
Our Board and senior leader communications, line manager briefing packs, video 96 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information membership currently has 31% female representation, reflecting that we advert was highlighted.
are on track to meet our 2020 target.
Barclays ATM messaging conveyed our advocacy for IDAHOBIT As a founding signatory of the HM Treasury Women in Leadership International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia and Charter and supporter of the Hampton-Alexander Review we proactively for World Aids Day, for matching augmented colleague fundraising set gender targets and at the end of 2016 female representation across for organisations leading on the treatment and prevention of HIV and the senior leadership population stood at 24% representing the third Aids.
consecutive year-on-year increase and progress towards our 2018 Independent recognition reflects the sustained impact of our global Women in Leadership goal of 26%.
In line with the recommendations work.
Stonewall continue to name us as one of just eight Star Performer from the Hampton-Alexander Review, from 2017, we will publish the organisations seen as leaders globally.
Role-model colleagues were this combined number of women on the Group Executive Committee and in year recognised in the Financial Times OUTstanding list of 100 LGBT the direct reports to the Executive Committee.
At the end of 2016 female business leaders, and in the Pride Power List.
Awards simply serve to representation across this population stood at 25%.
We will also use the motivate us to continue to shape our culture so that colleagues really review output to inform the update of our Women in Leadership targets.
can bring their whole selves to work.
Through the Your View survey we At all levels our gender pipeline has continued to strengthen thanks to provide colleagues with the opportunity to identify as being LGBT, with extensive programmes which focus on building capability and capacity, 3% of colleagues identifying as being LGBT in 2016. such as our Global Women in Leadership conference with over 5,000 colleagues participating, the Encore!
Returnship Programme and the Disability number of female graduate hires we have made increasing from 31% in Our aspiration to become the most accessible bank remains firm.
The Barclays Womens Initiatives Network WiN Progressing our aim, this year in partnership with the Lord Mayor of the also provides targeted development and networking opportunities such City we expanded our internal campaign, This Is Me, into the City of as group mentoring, careers fairs, and events helping to connect both London to encourage other organisations to join in eliminating the junior and senior colleagues from across the organisation.
stigma associated with mental health issues.
Over 70 organisations have Recognising our efforts, we were invited to be a corporate IMPACT already signed up for This is Me in The City.
Through our corporate champion by the United Nations in their HeForShe campaign on gender accessibility portal, we have now made our learning on accessibility and equality.
Internally we have asked colleagues to show their support by inclusion available for any organisation.
pledging a specific commitment that will contribute to gender parity.
We give continued to give full and fair consideration to applications from Since launching HeForShe, 60% of new members are male and many candidates who may have a disability.
Our people processes ensure all are now taking a more visible role as mentors and sponsors, helping to colleagues can progress their careers, with comprehensive training and contribute towards gender diversity and greater inclusion.
Staying at the development including our Disability Confident eLearning, and through vanguard of good practice requires sustained commitment and we value tailored and needs-based workplace adjustments where relevant.
This independent assessment that allows us to calibrate our approach.
For year we reviewed our Workplace Adjustment process to make it simpler the ninth year running, we were pleased to be included in The Times Top and easier for colleagues and our Adjustment Passport outlines 50 Workplaces for Women in the UK, and for the fourth successive year colleagues reasonable adjustments to eliminate the need for colleagues to be named in Working Mother 100 Best Companies in the US.
to inform new line managers and to increase the ease of internal mobility.
Employees who become disabled during their employment Female representation with us can access a full range of services and support ensuring we retain their talent.
52 2016 H2 % female Our efforts were recognised when Barclays achieved 98% in the staff all grades 51 2015 H2 Business Disability Forums world-renown Disability Standard the % female highest ever score awarded to any organisation since the introduction of 39 Vice Presidents and the Disability Standard in 2004.
38 Assistant Vice Presidents 26 Multigenerational % female Directors 24 0.04% 2016 H2 69 15 Veterans Traditionalists % female 0.04% 2015 H2 Managing Directors 14 12% 51 to 69 31 % female Baby Boomers 11% Board members 31 29% 39 to 51 Generation X Above shows the positive change in female representation within Barclays from 2015 H2 to 2016 H2 28% 62% 20 to 39 LGBT Generation Y 64% An inclusive culture is vital for colleagues to have the freedom and choice to bring their whole selves to work.
Enabling that culture, are our 1% 20 and below Spectrum Alliescolleagues who are committed to inclusion and Millennial 1% equality.
By educating others and visibly supporting equality, allies help to make LGBT colleagues, friends and family feel safer and more Above shows the different generations working at Barclays and the percentage change comfortable in leading their lives.
The Spectrum Allies campaign has over 2015 H2 and 2016 H2 identified over 7,000 colleagues globally as LGBT allies in 2016.
#nofilter was the theme of Pride in London 2016, which we were proud We benefit from the diverse perspectives of employees from five to be the headline sponsor of for the third consecutive year.
More than generations and need to ensure our workplace is inclusive for all.
1,100 colleagues, leaders, friends and family came together for Pride in Dynamic Working, our signature campaign relevant to colleagues every London and hundreds of colleagues marched at the head of the parade life stage with the strapline of how do your work your life, is in June.
Events for our colleagues, customers and clients took place encouraging the integration of personal and professional responsibilities throughout June to celebrate Pride month, and a partnership between through smarter work patterns.
the Barclays UK Marketing Team and Thomson Reuters resulted in a successful social media campaign, including over 10,000 downloads of the Pride in London smartphone application, in which Barclays nofilter home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 97 Governance: People As an example of our commitment to colleagues in different life stages, Barclays Apprenticeship Programme reflects our commitment to recruit we are one of the eight founding members in the Equality and Human a diverse workforce.
Since the programme launched in 2012, we have Rights Commissions EHRC Working Forward campaign that aims to recruited over 3,000 apprentices who are considered NEET Not in make British workplaces the best they can be for pregnant women and Education, Employment or Training.
30% identify as Black, Asian and working mothers.
Our Working Families network is supporting the Minority Ethnic, which is 19% higher than the national apprenticeship campaign by running integration workshops for returners from parental average of 11%.
In addition, 43% of our apprentices are from a and adoption leave.
disadvantaged area, as defined by the Department of Education.
Through this scheme we are making a positive impact on both youth The Emerge network supports colleagues early in their career or new to unemployment and social mobility.
financial services and the multigenerational composition of our workforce.
This year a global reverse mentoring programme was Ensuring Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic BAME female entrepreneurs launched with over 200 successful reverse mentoring partnerships can sustain and develop their businesses has been a shared focus via established.
Our Bolder Apprentice Programme continues to grow and our partnership with the UK Womens Business Council, and in 2016 we our Returnship programmes, both in the UK and US, are proving to be also supported the Black British Business Awards to celebrate the successful.
achievements of BAME leaders in the UK.
The multicultural profile of the organisation was acknowledged externally with senior leader role Changing careers is also important, which is why our Armed Forces models recognised in the top 100 inaugural UPstanding Executive Transitioning, Employment and Rehabilitation AFTER programme Power List of BAME leaders in the UK and US and in the Powerlist an continued to see ex-military talent join our company, or be supported to annual publication of Britains most influential people of African and gain relevant work-ready skills.
Since the programme began in 2010 African Caribbean heritage.
AFTER has assisted over 4,000 veterans in employment transition, we have hired nearly 400 ex-military talent and over 4m has been donated Permanent Employees by region to military charities to assist wounded and injured personnel in 2016 2015 2014 employment transition.
Meanwhile, our LifeSkills programmes continue UK 46,400 49,000 48,600 to prepare young people for their first steps into the world of work.
Continental Europe 4,700 7,400 9,900 Working Families UK recognised Barclays for best embedded workplace Americas 9,700 10,600 10,900 flexibility through our Dynamic Working Campaign.
In Singapore, we Africa and Middle East 42,800 43,600 44,700 won the Most Empowering Company for Mums award by the National Asia Pacific 15,700 18,800 18,200 Trades Union Congress, while in the US we were included in the 100 Total 119,300 129,400 132,300 Best Companies for Working Mothers.
In the UK, our approach to talent attraction was recognised by Working Mums as well as by Business In the Community.
Multicultural 30% 2016 H2 a UK 31% 2015 H2 50% b US 47% 70% c South Africa 69% 59% Global 60% Above shows the percentage of underrepresented populations that make up our global and regional populations.
Note that underrepresented populations are defined regionally to ensure inclusion with all groups in the workplace a UK includes Asian, Mixed, Black, Other and Non-disclosed.
b US includes Hispanic Latino, Asian, Mixed, Black, Other and Non-disclosed.
c South Africa includes African, Indian, Coloured, Other, and Non-disclosed.
Barclays global footprint makes multicultural inclusion imperative.
Fostering cross-cultural connections is enabled by Embrace our multicultural network.
Through the year Embrace has partnered with leaders and engaged colleagues across our global community to host discussions to gain insight and ideas on how we can better serve our multicultural customers and clients.
Embrace also helped us mark important cultural and religious calendar dates throughout 2016 such as Diwali and Eid, creating communications and events to bring to life the rich multicultural diversity of our people.
Day to day, this diversity is enabled by, for example, dedicated quiet rooms in many of our larger sites for prayer and reflection, and by serving halal and kosher food in our canteens.
98 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
