Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility BBA Aviation is a values-led organisation and Corporate our Vision, Mission and Values guide each of our employees every day, wherever we are.
Responsibility Safety Council and Charitable Giving Committee Our Values describe our aspirations as individuals and as a company BBA Aviation also operates a Safety Council and Charitable Giving and we all take care to behave in ways that are consistent with our Committee to oversee our activities in those areas.
Our Safety Council Vision, Mission and Values, whatever we are doing.
includes Health, Safety and Environment HSE professionals from Corporate Responsibility CR and sustainability are embedded into across BBA Aviation.
Its role is to enhance our safety policies and our Vision, Mission and Values and are fundamental to everything we procedures and to promote safety best practices and behaviours.
Our Vision, Mission and Values are also relevant to Our Charitable Giving Committee reviews and approves applications our customers, our suppliers and to everyone that has a relationship for additional funds to BBA Aviations charitable giving programme, with us.
Taking a sustainable approach is crucial if we are to achieve which is now in its seventh year.
our long-term goals and, for us, this means integrating social and environmental concerns into our business operations: embracing the opportunities and managing the risks of social and environmental developments: and living our Values to support our objectives.
Overall responsibility for CR sits with the Board.
Day-to-day management is delegated, via the Executive Management Committee, to the CR Committee, which sets direction on CR and sustainability issues.
The Committee is made up of senior members of the BBA Aviation team with relevant business roles and the ability to share knowledge and best practice across the Group.
The Committee meets 1011 times each year and the Committee Chairman regularly reports progress to the Executive Management Committee and to the Board.
The CR Committee is currently focused on the following Special Issues: continuous improvement in environmental performance, including alternative fuels: Integrity Performance community involvement: local participation and charitable giving: We earn the trust and respect We focus on delivery of of our stakeholders with long-term and sustainable employee recognition: and honesty, fairness, openness value, continuous diversity initiatives.
and by honouring our improvement and reliability.
The Committee also continues to measure the Groups commitments.
Safety environmental impact, focuses on social issues and monitors We are dedicated to safety Responsibility developments in the CR field.
andsecurity, the elimination We are committed to of hazards and protecting On the BBA Aviation website you can read more about our Approach managing our impact on, and people, property and our contributing positively to to CR and download copies of our 2016 Values Report and past years environment.
reports, showing some of the varied projects that BBA Aviations businesses have been undertaking, together with copies of our People Service relevant policies.
We are committed to investing We strive continually to inand empowering our anticipate customer needs, people through training and FTSE4Good and Carbon Disclosure Project exceeding their expectations.
education and to providing Since 2006, as BBA Aviation plc, we have been a member of the them with opportunities for FTSE4Good index and participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
26 26 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Our Values align and link all of our businesses Reporting together as one team.
Wherever you go in BBA Aviation you will see them displayed and on Corporate our teams actively promote and demonstrate them on a daily basis.
We report on CR using Responsibility our Values.
Performance Walk A Safety Mile In 2016, additional Walk A Mile days, which are required annually by our We focus on the delivery of long-term and sustainable value, leadership team, took place with HSE colleagues to encourage a greater continuous improvement and reliability.
understanding of HSE professionals day-to-day responsibilities and Performance is relevant to everything we do at BBA Aviation.
how safety is integrated into our processes across the Group.
It applies to our operational and financial results and to our non-financial goals such as safety, reliability, customer service and environmental progress.
Our Group Committees share best practices, with the Innovation and Continuous Improvement Safety Performance Safety Performance Committee iCI being responsible for supporting continuous Recordable Incident Number of locations improvement initiatives and the development of knowledge, Rate RIR achieving zero RIR and the Business Alliance Team looking at how we can leverage RIR is our primary Health and 130 out of 210 BBA Aviation customer relationships across the Group.
reporting locations RIR is measured as the total achieved zero RIR during We report on a range of sustainability and CR KPIs, together with number of injuries and illnesses 2016, reflecting 62% of our internal expectations that motivate all of our teams to do their multiplied by 200,000, divided reporting locations.
All members of the BBA Aviation team are encouraged by the number of actual hours to contribute what they can to the success of the whole Group.
Safety We are dedicated to safety and security, the elimination of hazards and protecting people, property and our environment.
2016 2016 1 1 Protecting the health, safety and security of our teams, our sites, our customers and all those who come into contact with us is a 1.79 130 priority for BBA Aviation.
Our goal is zero preventable incidents ZIPP and our Health and Safety strategy seeks to deliver an 2015 3.97 2015 160 environment and proactive safety culture at all sites to make this 2014 4.00 2014 164 achievable.
Each employee takes responsibility for their own safety, 2013 3.11 2013 144 and that of co-workers, and with the support of their local Health 2012 3.04 2012 160 and Safety teams, can identify ways to improve performance.
Our focus continues to be on acknowledging and learning from near 1 1 Figure for 2016 excludes ASIG.
misses and the root causes of incidents which, together with a shift Figure for 2016 excludes ASIG, Comparative figure for 2016 Comparative figure including ASIG towards behavioural-based safety, is, raising awareness and helping including ASIG was 206 out of for 2016 was 3.31. to more deeply engage team members in safety issues.
In 2016, our Safety Management System was implemented across the Group and we also introduced formal hazard and security incident reporting, alongside near misses, in our SHEBBA reporting and tracking system.
27 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility People Service We are committed to investing in and empowering our people We strive continually to anticipate customer needs, through training and education and to providing them with exceeding their expectations.
Our customers expect high-quality, reliability and excellent service Our people are the foundation of our success.
Their service skills from every business and person they deal with at BBA Aviation.
We aim and their functional, operational and engineering expertise are the to exceed expectations in everything we do and have designed our core of our business.
Ensuring that BBA Aviation attracts, develops businesses to anticipate customer requirements both now and into the and retains the best people is vital to the Groups success and the future so that we can continue to lead in this area.
We constantly review what we provide in order to meet changing We provide every member of the team with equal opportunities to customer needs.
Innovation is crucial and BBA Aviation takes thrive, as well as specific and relevant job-related training designed to opportunities to serve the customer better whenever appropriate, expand individual capabilities and give people the tools needed to reach including working together across the Group to create and deliver their potential.
We listen to all points of view, encourage everyone to new ideas.
have their say in both formal and informal ways and then we act on what we hear.
We continue to encourage the use of our Above and Beyond Responsibility cards, which recognise individual achievement at all levels of the Group, We are committed to managing our impact on, and contributing and we have an annual Vision, Mission and Values Awards programme.
positively to, society and the environment.
Landmark Aviation Integration a Community We recognise the benefits of working in partnership In 2016, we welcomed almost 3,000 new team members to with the communities in which we operate and we play an active role BBA Aviation, following the acquisition of Landmark Aviation.
in local projects through volunteering and fundraising.
Our integration programme aimed to ensure that joining personnel BBA Aviations companies and locations are encouraged to focus had a deeper understanding of our Values and their importance in their efforts on activities and organisations in the fields of aviation, our day-to-day behaviour.
education and engineering and benefiting the communities in At BBA Aviation we believe diversity of background and experience which they operate.
Our local efforts are complemented by the BBA enhances the performance and inclusive culture of our businesses Aviation parent company charitable giving programme which was and we apply this philosophy when seeking to find people to fill roles launched in 2010.
Donations to date total more than $1.4 million.
b Environment We are committed to working in ways that limit the Recognising that gender is only one particular form of diversity to impact of our business activities on the environment and aim for which we are committed, we are pleased that across BBA Aviations continuous improvement in environmental performance every year, various executive management teams, women make up between 12% including the elimination of environmental incidents.
and 19% of the population and we look forward to seeing this develop.
Every BBA Aviation site records and tracks the use of resources for reporting purposes and to monitor efficiency and environmental The table below shows the percentage of women employed performance.
We consider ways to reduce and prevent pollution: in various roles as at 31 December 2016: reduce emissions, electricity and waste, and increase our levels of Total Number of % of recycling where possible.
Population Population women women The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Board 8 1 12.5% Regulations 2013 require quoted companies to report globally on Executive Management Committee 8 1 12.5% greenhouse gas emissions GHG reporting.
We have reported on Senior Management Group 103 20 19.4% all the required emission sources.
All of these sources fall within our Directors of subsidiaries included Consolidated Financial Statements.
1 in consolidation 58 5 8.6% All employees of the Group 15,292 3,699 24.2% 1 This disclosure includes dormant companies and multiple directorships and we do not believe it is an accurate indicator of diversity.
Note: These figures include ASIG.
Ray Pearson, Customer Services Administrator, Ontic UK.
2 28 8 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Greenhouse gas emissions environmental reporting data Both our recorded total GHG emissions and GHG intensity emissions per $m revenue have decreased relative to 2015.
The decrease in 1 2016 2015 GHG emissions is the result of a variety of factors, including lower Combustion of fuel and operation utility usage.
of facilities 62,246 62,152 tCO2e Electricity, heat, steam and cooling Integrity purchased for own use 62,628 51,600 tCO2e Total 124,874 113,753 tCO2e We earn the trust and respect of our stakeholders with honesty, fairness, openness and by honouring our commitments.
GHG intensity measurement Acting with integrity is critical to maintaining good and continuing Emissions reported per $m of revenue 48.67 53.41 tCO2e relationships from those we have with customers and other external 1 A number of the 2015 figures have been updated to reflect data that was unavailable at the time of stakeholders to the way we interact with each other.
This is vital for our publishing the 2015 Annual Report.
Ethical conduct and legal compliance are key expectations at BBA BBA Aviation has voluntarily reported on environmental metrics for Aviation and any breach is taken extremely seriously.
We continually a number of years.
The table below shows the disclosures, in a format look for ways to strengthen our compliance and control programmes that is consistent with previous disclosures.
to ensure we uphold these standards, which are fundamental to the way we operate.
Units 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 BBA Aviation has a range of formal policies relating to such areas Electricity consumption as Ethics, Gifts and Entertainment and Equal Opportunities.
These KWh $m revenue 49,349 50,676 54,884 48,155 51,829 policies are reviewed regularly and compliance with our policies is GHG emissions monitored through BBA Aviations Internal Audit process and informal Tonnes $m revenue 48.67 53.41 53.42 49.54 57.25 and formal reporting processes.
Water consumption Our Vision, Mission and Values govern the way we do business and are 1,000 litres $m revenue 174 203 169 161 182 consistent with our human rights obligations.
A number of our policies, Revenue including the Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy, the Bribery $m 2,565.9 2,129.8 2,289.8 2,218.6 2,178.9 and Corruption Policy and the Ethics Implementation Policy, while not specifically mentioning human rights, recognise the importance Note: These figures include ASIG.
of how we conduct our business and its impact on a wide range of stakeholders.
The requirement for a specific human rights policy will Environmental KPIs continue to be monitored.
The Groups environmental KPIs are normalised for comparison purposes to dollars of revenue.
We use the services of an external We respect the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human consultant to review the process for collecting and consolidating Rights and the International Labour Organizations core conventions.
We value diversity of background and experience and believe in an inclusive culture for all of our employees.
We have used the World Business Council for Sustainable Development World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, and emission factors from the UK 2013 Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Solar panels at Signature Bradley International Airport 29
