Responsible business Making more of a difference in our 30th year.
This year we wanted to make an even bigger difference as part of Our vision is to use our expertise, our 30th anniversary celebrations.
Weve donated $362,000 to our charity partners and our Beazley Pacific Cycle challenge alone influence and passion as a force raised another $18,264, which was used for 18 ShelterBoxes in Haiti following Hurricane Matthew.
September was also Making forgood in our local communities a Bigger Difference month, helping the total number of employee and the wider world.
volunteers for the year reach 430, from 326 in 2015.
Its all about making sure that everyone not just ourselves felt the benefit of our anniversary celebrations.
As well as looking back and appraising what weve done, its also a time to look ahead, to the things one aspires to.
We pride ourselves on setting ourselves apart.
We work hard to give something back, especially in the workplace and with our communities.
However, theres more we can do, particularly in the marketplace and for our impact on the environment.
Things to celebrate QuIRP and Baby Beazley Marketplace Hospitals that improve get money back on the basis they are becoming a better risk.
Celebrating our products And that means patients are safer, says that are making a real Nat Cross, Head of global healthcare.
The Quality Indicator Return Premium, or QuIRP, programme is an important element of the specialist healthcare As market leaders in many insurance that we offer to hospitals.
of our chosen lines, we have It offers clients returns on their premiums if they meet pre-agreed patient quality aunique understanding of and safety standards.
The programme our clients risks.
We can creates an incentive to provide better care for patients.
It also shows how use this expertise to create specialist insurance designed by innovative products that experts can be a force for good.
encourage behaviour that Says Nat: Were proud that through QuIRP The Ann & Robert H. Lurie Childrens benefits society as well we have returned more than $7m Hospital of Chicago is an excellent in premiums to hospitals that have as our insureds.
It reinvested part of the rebate demonstrably improved their practices.
it received for meeting safety and quality Adrian Cox targets in Baby Beazley, a simulation Head of specialty lines mannequin used for training in the main $7m hospital as well as many of its outreach units across the State of Illinois.
premiums returned 58 Beazley Annual report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements We consider our environmental impact We want to minimise our Environment when we open new offices and aim to businesss environmental select sustainable and energy saving materials to minimise these impacts.
Were focused on Celebrating doing our For example, this year we replaced making our offices efficient.
the lighting in our London office with energy efficient LED lights.
We work with suppliers Refreshing our to make our procurement Our procurement sustainable.
We engage our environmental policy We leverage our buying power and work with suppliers to make a positive people to help achieve our As tenants theres a limit to what environmental impact.
Looking after our we can do environmentally to affect the buildings we are in, says Munira Hirji, Our people and communications environment is core to Being Head of commercial management, We engage our people to help achieve Beazley we do the right and Responsible Business Committee our goals, consider their environmental member for the environment.
But what approach outside work and keep them thing not because the rule we can do we will principally working informed of what we are doing.
Every book tells us to, but because closely with our landlords and building day we strive to reduce our carbon management companies to ensure that its right.
footprint from using public transport together we promote and implement as a preferred means of transportation Ian Fantozzi building initiatives that support the to booking taxis with car companies Chief operating officer environment.
In addition, we encourage that provide electric and hybrid vehicles our colleagues to save energy and when car transportation is required minimise waste both within our own in the UK.
We use electric We refreshed our environmental EPL: fewer claims, policy in July 2016, renewing our and hybrid vehicles commitment to managing our phewsay employees environmental impacts.
focuses on three key areas: By helping employers avoid claims, we are reducing their risk while improving Our offices the workplace for everyone, says Wayne Imrie, EPL & Private company We make every effort to ensure that any adverse environmental impact from liability underwriter.
our offices is minimal and we find ways to enhance them so they have a more Employee tribunals are stressful events for everyone.
Practices Liability EPL policy aims to reduce the risk of situations ending up in court.
As well as providing typical insurance, BeazleySure, our online risk management platform, offers policyholders comprehensive risk management training, a dedicated telephone hotline, wage and hour tutorials as well as model policies th and procedures.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 59 Things to celebrate Responsible business continued Environment continued Workplace The building also received an Energy Green goes Gold Diversity in our workforce Star score from the US Environmental in Chicago Protection Agency EPA of 84 three Furthering our diversity goals points up from last year.
Buildings that In 2015 the nomination committee Almost half of our US offices earn the Energy Star use on average up agreed our goal should be to have are in Leadership in Energy and to 35% less energy and generate 35% two women on the board by the 2016 Environmental Developments LEED fewer greenhouse gas emissions than AGM and three by the 2017 AGM certified buildings.
This is a coveted similar buildings across the US.
we achieved that with Catherine Woods industry standard.
Where possible and Christine LaSala joining the board we open new offices in LEED or local An EPA Energy Star score of this year.
Our Chicago office is a LEED-certified The board has agreed to adopt a similar building and has been recently 84 approach to the gender diversity of our upgraded to Gold status.
senior management with the aim of building a diverse talent pipeline for For new buildings to receive LEED the future.
The board is committed to status is a big achievement, but for having at least 35% of female senior existing buildings to improve their LEED management at Beazley by 2020. status to Gold is really impressive, says In line with our vision, the board is also Munira.
Its all thanks to our landlords committed to promoting the recruitment and our own colleagues focus on energy and retention of people from different and resource-saving ideas such as backgrounds.
This approach is replacing equipment with more underpinned by our commitment to energy-efficient models and installing maintaining our meritocratic approach automated faucets in the restrooms.
to diversity while ensuring that we are avoiding unconscious bias in our selection criteria.
Were also doing our best to give people from all backgrounds the right level of support to progress within the group.
Our vision is to attract and develop people with different experiences, backgrounds and lifestyles, with different skills and perspectives a workforce that shares the diversity of our customers and communities where wework around the world.
Penny Malik Head of talent management 60 Beazley Annual report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Statement on the Modern Slavery Act 2015 We plan to expand our efforts to recruit and promote We abide by and are committed to the peoplefroman increasingly diverse population.
Externally, requirements of the Modern Slavery Act.
We continue to work to ensure  to investigate recruitment partners there is no slavery, human trafficking or whoshareour diversity and inclusion vision and goals.
any forced labour in our supply chains.
RobAnarfi Health and wellbeing Chair of the diversity and inclusion steering group 2016 saw the second year of our Health and Wellbeing initiative, which raises awareness about the Beazley benefits available to employees, and Recruitment Employee diversity by gender promotes healthy lifestyles.
During the year we held events on nutrition, which We have increased our activities to Beazley plc board support diversity recruitment across covered educational talks and healthy Male eating and also musculoskeletal, which the group and we are looking to partner with organisations that promote diverse included yoga and massage sessions.
11 recruitment in both the US and the UK.
Female Throughout the year we continued 3 to promote the Beazley health and Training We have recently launched a new wellbeing site with healthy initiatives, Total 2016 14 including reclaim your lunch break learning management system LMS Senior management across the group.
This includes a section which promoted ideas such as walking and cycling trails in the areas local to focusing on diversity and inclusion Male outlining programmes focusing on: each office, lunchtime talks outside 77 the office, Beazley lunchtime clubs Learning and development for women Female and gym membership.
This includes a bespoke 26 modular programme Women at Work.
The number of Health and Wellbeing In the US we have linked with the Total 2016 103 champions has grown in line with the Women in Insurance and Financial business and they continue to support All employees Services network.
and promote the initiative around Male W orking parents.
We have linked up the globe.
616 with Talking Talent in the UK and the Female National Parenting Education network We carry out health and safety risk assessments at all locations to ensure in the US, which provides support for 528 new parents and their line managers.
safety and correct protocols are in Total 2016 1,144 place at all locations.
We also ensure We have also provided links to similar support programmes in Singapore our people are trained in first aid and fire procedures to ensure the safety and Australia.
We have connected with programmes in the US, UK and Asia Pac that help support young professionals starting their careers in insurance.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 61 Things to celebrate Responsible business continued Communities Celebrating making a difference inour communities We aim to go beyond employment, and improve opportunities for all those who live and work around our offices.
Many ofour employees volunteer their time through mentoring Giving the next generation andpartnership programmes which increase the skills and astep up expertise of local children and young people.
Beazley people also Mentoring is one of the most support our communities by contributing to our corporate charity valuable ways we can contribute to partner and to dozens of causes close to their homes or hearts.
our communities, says Iain Newton, Research and development manager, Clive Washbourn and Responsible Business Committee Head of marine member for community.
It means we can share our skills and expertise in a very meaningful way.
Samira, from Sarah Bonnell School Colleagues mentor students and The rewards of volunteering in London who attended one of graduates in a number of ways.
In 2016 our workshops said: Thank you I love September its global we held workshops for more than 350 for the amazing presentation about volunteering month and all over the students focusing on careers and work insurance and women in the workplace.
world colleagues are going out and skills.
Were also members of the Lloyds It really got me interested in the concept making a difference, says Pippa Community Programme, which offers of insurance and I am now considering Vowles, chair, Beazley Responsible hundreds of volunteering opportunities going into the insurance industry.
Everyone agrees in and around our London office from that Make a Difference is valuable, children with literacy and numeracy for those we help and for ourselves.
needs to young teenagers struggling 430 to find work.
This year teams from Australia, Ireland, over 430 colleagues roll up their sleeves France, Singapore, the US and the UK Im reading Maths and Economics took part in Make a Difference projects, at the University of Surrey and last distributing food for the homeless, year I got a placement with healthcare, maintaining local parks, restoring specialty lines, says Nida Jafri, returning community centres and teaching intern.
Ive had more training at Beazley young people career and public than my friends elsewhere.
worked here, I feel more equipped for the path Id like to pursue.
200 over 200 students mentored in 2016 62 Beazley Annual report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Pedalling hard for Haiti Beazley team conquers $99,329 four Colorado fourteeners Whats the link between 23,000ft, raised to help research scientists the Pacific Ocean and pink lycra?
for Shelterbox It can only be the Beazley Pacific Cycle!
On 15 September, eight of us took to our A team of eight Beazley employees raised more than $15,000 for ShelterBox by bikes for a gruelling 470 miles from San $362,000 Francisco to LA in aid of our global charity climbing four fourteeners 14,000 ft mountains in southern Colorado in August.
partner of the year, ShelterBox, says donated to charities James Wright, Head of US IT.
Our target was to raise $10,000 for the $33,000 charity and we almost doubled that by reaching $18,264.
raised for ShelterBox in two months ShelterBox is an international disaster relief charity that responds to natural and Supporting the Cancer man-made disasters by delivering boxes of aid ShelterBoxes.
It became our Research Institute UK charity partner in 2013, and in In the US, one in four peoples lives are 2015 our global charity partner.
Every cut short by cancer.
The Cancer Research ShelterBox contains items families need Institute awards research grants and to survive in the immediate aftermath of fellowships to support scientists at a disaster, such as special tents, blankets, leading research universities and clinics groundsheets, water-filtration equipment, around the world.
It supports scientists a tool-kit and mosquito nets.
All at any stage of their career at all levels ShelterBoxes are distributed by specially of scientific inquiry from basic research to trained volunteers.
These volunteers are coordinated clinical trials.
It is the worlds based all over the world and are ready 30 grants and 30 meals only not-for-profit organisation dedicated to deploy at a moments notice to get exclusively to harnessing the immune aid to families who need it most.
As part of our 30th anniversary efforts systems power to conquer cancer.
to continue making an impact in our The amount raised was used for communities, we offered employees Current cancer treatments are not 18 ShelterBoxes in Haiti following the chance to apply for a total of enough, and new approaches beyond Hurricane Matthew.
30 grants of 250 in local currency to chemotherapy, radiation and surgery be donated to a charity of their choice.
are needed to help save more lives, We have also donated 30 meals in says Jill ODonnell-Tormey, CEO of Cancer $18,264 every location where we are based Research Institute.
Beazleys support for those in need, via a local charity raised for ShelterBox through Beazley provides much needed funding, which or homeless shelter.
Pacific Cycle allows us in turn to aid scientists to research cures for cancer by giving grants.
These grants are crucial in allowing talented scientists to conduct laboratory research and clinical trials leading to life-saving immunotherapies for all cancers.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 63 Things to celebrate Responsible business continued Environment What we want to do next Aspiring to keep doing Marketplace includes finding ways Our aspirations going forward.
to underwrite profitable business that our bit There has been much to celebrate can also have a positive impact on the with regards to carrying out our wider community, for example, better We will look for opportunities to do business responsibly in the year patient care through our healthcare even more next year to minimise our of our 30th anniversary.
However products or encouraging our insureds environment impact.
We will ensure we were on a journey and its ever to invest in their local communities deliver against our environmental policy a case of onwards and upwards.
Also, and continue to work with our landlords we link our community and charity and our new people to make an even activities to our business, choosing bigger difference.
Marketplace charities that are relevant to us like ShelterBox and All Hands for more Aspiring to define, on All Hands please see page 65. develop and deliver In 2016 we focused on phase one of our Marketplace strategy, and in 2017 Marketplace is core to our Responsible we will focus on phases two and three: Business strategy because it underpins 1.
Research: to get a better the way we write business and has a understanding of what we far-reaching impact, says Andrew currently do and explore what other Horton, CEO.
Wherever possible we opportunities there are across the want to use our expertise as a force for business, so we can then focus on good.
Our aim is to understand the full delivering two or three initiatives reach of our existing business practices and highlight the positive influence we 2.
Define and develop: run a workshop can have when underwriting as well with representatives from across as finding innovative ways to deliver the business, to identify and agree responsible, profitable business.
two or three initiatives to develop in to product offerings variations 3.
Deliver: deliver the two or three initiatives chosen as above.
Our objective is to create a robust responsible business strategy that creatively uses our expertise as a force for good in the sectors we serve and recognises its centrality to our business.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Communities Aspiring to do still more in 2017 2016 has seen some great projects delivered and some great results achieved in ourcommunity and charity work.
Our focus next year will be on strategic direction while keeping our momentum.
Adam Rich Actuary and lead for our US community efforts New charity partnership Establishing our new global charity Wherever you find Beazley, we want you to find people partnership with All Hands will be a key focus for us in 2017.
All Hands are a doing the right thing by our clients, by the communities disaster-relief organisation addressing were part of, and by each other.
I look forward to the needs of communities worldwide working with my colleagues across the business in 2017 affected by such catastrophes.
We need to look beyond the funds we donate and to develop a strategic approach that embeds our desire create a sustainable partnership where todo the right thing throughout our company.
we use our skills and expertise as well.
Andrew Horton Make a Difference 2017 Chief executive officer The benefits of getting involved with our local communities has a positive impact not only on them but also on our people too.
Our colleagues have said that community volunteering is valuable for us as an organisation.
It has helped build pride in working for Beazley as well as enhancing their skills and building and strengthening relationships across the business.
We look forward to building further on this rewarding area of involvement by delivering another successful Make a Difference month in September 2017. www.
