Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Whats important to our customers Delivering customer service based on the needs of our customers.
Efficiency Insight Service Our customers know that working with Many of our customers need textile To us, the eye and the voice of the us means their business will benefit from and hygiene solutions to meet customer are considered in every link continual improvements in operational regulatory demands.
As industry of the service chain from the initial efficiency, which directly translate into experts, we do more than meet these.
contact, to the agreement on the lower costs, higher quality and less Through thoughtful leadership, we strive solution, to ongoing supplies.
to exceed them, giving our customers peace of mind that their responsibilities Continuous improvement are being met and that we are creating Our customer feedback programmes give us Reducing our customers impact on the important insight into how we perform and an even cleaner, safer environment.
environment where and how we can do better through Through our continuous improvement initiatives continuous improvement.
In 2016, we received within plant efficiency, in the UK alone, we have Supporting compliance feedback from more than 25,000 customers reduced our usage of water per kg washed by Our innovative use of Radio-Frequency through these programmes.
13.5% from a 2013 baseline to the benefit of the Identication RFID technology supports our environment and our customers.
customers within the healthcare, pharmaceutical, high-tech and food industries to manage hygiene and contamination control and to comply with strict standards.
04 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Our customers want a partner who understands their business, who they cantrust to deliver everyday solutions, and who places efficiency and service atthe heart of how they dobusiness.
Above all, our customers want a partner that is constantly thinking about new and better ways to help them improve their business and the experience they give totheircustomers.
Safety Innovation Partnership Health and safety is an integral part of We continuously focus on new and We work in partnership with our everything we do.
We think safety first better ways to help our customers customers, large and small, to ensure when we design, plan and conduct the improve their business and the that our textiles and hygiene solutions work processes at our plants, when well-being of their customers match their changing needs.
we collect and deliver supplies at our and staff.
customers premises and when we Co-designing solutions develop solutions matching customer We understand that our customers textiles Improving hand hygiene with LightGuide are not just a functional part of their business.
Berendsen LightGuide washroom system, tested We develop our workwear solutions in close in a variety of industries, nudges washroom users partnership with our customers purchase, through the correct handwashing procedure Helping customers to a safe workday design, marketing specialists, the end-users using light sequences.
Intelligent software, We support safety professionals across Europe and our staff of designers and industry experts.
collecting data on user behaviour, enables us, to get an overview of industry standards Through this, we ensure high functionality, strong and our customers, to achieve a markedly and legislation regarding high-visibility and image branding and optimisation in relation to improved hand hygiene.
personal protection workwear by arranging handling and care.
webinars targeted at our different markets.
In 2016, we also developed toolboxes with lms on a safe workday, supporting safety for our Dutch customers.
