Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility Our approach to Corporate Responsibility.
How we make it happen Corporate Responsibility CR and our Through our Values, which are the credentials in this area inuence our expected behaviours and culture which underpin our work: our CR ability to attract and retain customers, policies whichare the formal point of reference for all employees and external employees, investors and suppliers.
It is stakeholders: and through established key to sustainability over the long term.
procedures and responsibilities to facilitate robust non-financial reporting.
Therefore, we continue to work hard to integrate CR in our business processes and in the decisions we take.
James Drummond Chief Executive Officer Stakeholder engagement People and health & safety Operational environmental Our CR efficiency focus areas Innovative and efficient solutions A responsible supply chain 32 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements What we said we would do CR governance and policies in 2016 a Complete a review of our corporate responsibility approach, including a review of our policies to ensure alignment with the revised Board business strategy Sets all Group CR policies a Review corporate responsibility CR management related KPIs Reviews CR KPIs, notably health and key policies and safety and CO2 emissions a Develop and deliver an e-learning programme on anti-bribery and Is informed of all incidents corruption, to ensure that training is consistent across all of our businesses a Automate the current incident reporting system to further improve performance a Develop our first statement in respect to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 The Group Risk Business Lines Country managers Manager and shared service a Implement Group Finance Directors CR policies a Reports CR KPIs Our progress in 2016 and incidents to a Report on KPIs from all a Report on a In 2016, we increased focus on people the Board business units compliance with and health and safety corporate the CR Group policies a Manages external a Report to Group twice a year responsibility areas and delayed the CR communication management on any and surveys overall CR strategy review to 2017 a Report any known or CR-related issues and incidents suspected cases of a Reports annually on a We have developed the anti-bribery non-compliance progress to the UN and corruption training content and Global Compact all relevant employees will be trained in 2017 Our Group-wide CR policies include: a Incident reporting system now automated through a web-based a Ethics a Human Resources and employees system which allows for faster a Health and safety a Community escalation and structured approach to incident management a Environment a Business continuity planning a Our first Modern Slavery Act a Supplier Code of Conduct a Anti-bribery and corruption Statement is now available on a Competition law our website More information can be found at Next steps and priorities www.
com crpolicies for2017 a Complete the review of our corporate responsibility strategy and related policies and KPIs a Ensure all relevant employees, in particular those more exposed to risk, complete the Group e-learning antibribery and corruption training a Group General Counsel joined in early 2017 who will review Group policies, in particular, competition law 33 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility continued What we said we would do in 2016 a Roll-out the customer loyalty e-learning programme Stakeholder a Introduce incentive programmes for customer service staff, rewarding engagement loyal customers a Agree and implement actions to We engage with our key stakeholders in order to address the areas for improvement understandtheir needs and expectations to ensure identied by the employee wedeliveroptimum outcomes for all.
engagement survey a Review our current approach to CR, focusing on how we can improve Engaging and understanding our stakeholders stakeholder engagement Customers Suppliers Our progress in 2016 We regularly invite feedback from Our investments in the central customers about our services and procurement and supply chain function a Customer loyalty e-learning launched innovations.
This is supported by open up greater opportunities for in January 2016 across all businesses.
independent satisfaction surveys and us to develop long-term strategic 1,030 employees from customer the Net Promoted Score.
relationships with suppliers, supporting service and management have our ambition to rationalise our completed the e-learning supplier base.
In respect of equipment a Group service remuneration principles suppliers, we are developing strategic More and guidelines introduced in 2016 partnerships based on equipment 37 along with service incentive toolbox efficiency and lifecycle.
Employees a All our business locations have worked We utilise a variety of employee with employee groups in agreeing engagement channels, including improvement actions following the More Group-wide employee surveys which 38 results of the employee survey are conducted every two years.
Industry partners a The review of our current approach to In our key markets, we engage with the CR will be completed in 2017 wider textile services industry through More trade associations, sharing issues 35 Next steps and priorities around legislation, technical standards for2017 Investors and safety.
Our commitment to the Executive management meets a Focus on our Net Promoter Score industry and reputation for integrity regularly with investors and potential and improving our work with often provide opportunities to acquire investors, and receives regular input customer feedback local companies when the owners seek from brokers and advisers which are to retire or exit.
a Continuous development of the shared with the Board.
This is a joint Non-Executive Directors meet annually Local communities digital platform which ensures easy with investors without executives We are conscious that our plants are access for our customers to service being present.
part of their communities and that teams, ordering of products and our workforce is drawn from this local solutions, customer data, performance environment.
We actively engage KPIs etc with these communities, investing More in local initiatives to ensure that our 76 a We will complete the third employee impact is positive and to provide survey across all of our businesses further employment.
34 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements What we said we would do in 2016 a Use employee focus groups to help implement site specic action plans People a Develop capabilities required to build Berendsen Excellence.
Put in place new Business Line management and Our people are core to our service delivery: Business Line development teams their development is vital to our success.
We continuously a Further embed and communicate develop our employees to ensure we have the right the new Vision, Mission and Values, people, inthe right place, with the right skills.
strategy and business progress a Work on pay incentives to align with the new structure and underpin We have also moved to a Business Upgrading capability to get reward for performance Line structure in 2016.
In doing this, t for the future we have appointed senior managers A UK workforce transformation across Europe and the UK to deliver Our progress in 2016 programme to invest in and upgrade and effectively execute our new a Implemented actions from employee our capability and get the right business strategy.
focus groups at specic site locations people into the right jobs was a key priority in 2016.
The programme a Completed a transformation Understanding and re-scoped and increased to circa programme to upgrade capability in deepeningour skills 450 posts, resulting in 40% of middle the UK As a result of the changes to our management being upskilled and a Created a new leadership capability new talent being recruited into the workforce and structure, we will continue to invest in our leadership framework and put in place a Group business in the three largest UK Business Development team Business Lines Workwear, Healthcare development programmes and will roll-out talent and capability and Hospitality.
Those stepping a Continued to embed the Vision, into new roles will begin tailored programmes to all employees.
Created a To complement this focus on professional development capability framework which is based programmes to get t for the future leadership development, we have upon our core values created a new leadership capability and grow the business.
a Reviewed and amended the rewards framework which is aligned with the Berendsen core values.
and benets policy including external salary benchmarking We will maintain our management trainee programmes across the Next steps and priorities Gillian Duggan business to ensure we nurture a skilled for2017 Group Director, talent pipeline.
Human Resources a Relaunch the Berendsen Academy as a leading learning and development function and to include LEAN training, management and leadership training, CR, safety, risk and compliance training a Design and roll-out an integrated Senior management retention rate capability and talent programme Gender statistics fordelivery across all employees 98% 97% 97% 96% 83% Female Male % Female 83% a Redesign and communicate Board of 29% the 2017 management directors 2 5 2015: 29% compensation programme Senior 11% management 15 127 2015: 11% a Create an organisational blueprint for Other 36% the sales and service organisation management 361 636 2015: 29% KPI 53% a Conduct and analyse a third employee 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Employees 7,484 6,770 2015: 43% engagement survey in 2017 35 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility continued What we said we would do in 2016 a Make our management teams more knowledgeable about health and safety Health and safety a Expand our KPIs a Introduce new reporting, investigation Making us World Class in our approach and root cause analysis processes tohealthand safety, targeting zero accidents a Enhance our ability to monitor the in everything we do.
effectiveness of the corrective actions we take across the Group Management Performance Our progress in 2016 Safety will always be one of our core In July 2016, we launched the Berendsen a We have delivered on all we have said values.
We recognise that our people Incident Reporting System BIRS.
we would do on knowledge, reporting, are vital to our success and we have a Through this first step in our health and investigation and monitoring duty to protect them while they work safety e-enablement programme we to deliver the success of our company.
have delivered on the reporting and a Management and Executive Directors Doing the right thing by delivering investigation targets we had for 2016. bonuses are now related to our health on this duty will not only secure our and safety performance The improvements we have achieved employees health and safety at work, it and the enhanced awareness and a In Q4 we completed an independent will also support Berendsens strategic accessibility this has delivered has review of the degree of maturity and direction by ensuring that the health resulted in a marked increase in reporting best practice in our health and safety and safety threats to the business by all employees.
This is evident in the systems and procedures across are proactively resolved before they 597 near-miss reports and 1,478 safety the Group negatively impact our people and observations that have been drafted and our success.
a Recruitment of a new Health and acted on during Q3 and Q4 2016.
In 2015 Safety Director We believe that a poor health and we did not have these statistics.
safety record is incompatible with a As a consequence of the reporting high performing sustainable business.
Next steps and priorities improvements we have made, there is an increase of 0.99 reported major for2017 injuries per one million hours worked for a Proactive action based on analysis 2016.
We believe this to be an increase in of reported data to address the root openness and reporting, not an increase James Drummond causes of injuries across the Group in occurrences.
This is very positive, as Chief Executive Officer and reduce all injury rates we now have a clearer picture of the key safety issues across the business a Begin the process of taking the best and the incidents that result from practice standards that we have from them.
We are now developing and across the business and applying implementing programmes to eliminate them where they add value to other or reduce the identied risks.
areas of the Group Major injuries statistics a Improve our health and safety Major Number audit process Major injury rate injury of major rate injuries a Expanding our KPIs to have an 2016: 0.77 3 0.99 even more proactive focus on our 83% Facility 2015: 0.79 safety performance 2016: 1.87 11 Workwear 2015: 0.86 5 a Deliver against the strategic 0.54 0.51 2016: 1.20 8 0.44 communications plan to continue Healthcare 2015: 0.60 4 the development of our fair and just 2016: 0.45 3 safety culture Hospitality 2015: 0.87 4 KPI 2016: 0.99 25 a Introducing multi-lingual e-learning for 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total Group 2015: 0.54 13 our workforce Number of fatalities and major injuries total hours worked 36 x 1,000,000.
Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements What we said we would do in 2016 a Continue implementing the enzyme process across sites and introduce the Cool Chemistry system in additional Innovative and UK laundries efficient solutions a Continue to improve washing quality by testing a new washing We continuously seek to innovate new solutions process from Ecolab, called toensurethat our customers get a differentiated performance industry servicewhich helps to improve our customers a Continue regular business continuity CRperformanceas well as ours.
planning tests Our progress in 2016 In our UK Hospitality and Healthcare Innovative solutions a The new enzyme process in the businesses we have also continued As industry experts we are in a position our investment in Cool Chemistry.
washing cycle was implemented in to constantly look for new, innovative more laundries and currently we have This process enables reduced solutions which contribute to improving wash temperatures with associated 31 running with enzyme process our CR performance and those of reduced energy consumption.
a Cool Chemistry introduced The wash chemicals are dynamically in six of our UK atwork sites We seek to continuously identify new manufactured on site, reducing completing all of the atwork sites, innovative solutions by engaging the need for resources as well as to reduce wash temperatures and with both suppliers and customers environmental impact.
energy consumption with the aim to reduce environmental impact whilst enhancing quality and a We completed business continuity Business continuity process efficiency.
tests in Norway, Ireland and UK Our customers depend on us to meet For example, our Cleanroom their needs at all times and expect us to deliver, no matter the circumstances.
business has focused on the Next steps and priorities following innovations: Service continuity is secured by a for2017 business continuity policy, which a FlexiMat a specially developed and a We will continue to look for new includes a requirement for up-to-date patented mat system for cleanroom innovative solutions.
Some specic Business Continuity Plans BCP which contamination control examples of our initiatives are: are tested across all of our businesses.
The testing of the new chemicals a MicronGoggles to protect products and people in sterile manufacturing concept for workwear laundries Performance Industry has been a MicronSwep for cleaning and postponed, as the chemicals were disinfection of cleanrooms not available yet.
We now foresee that this testing will take place in In addition, we continue with the 2017 in at least three laundries roll-out of enzyme processes, mainly Build new state-of-the-art laundries in our workwear laundries, but also Implementation of Oxyguard-40 introduced in several hospitality processes low-temperatures laundries.
This process replaces wash in the Danish and Swedish partially undesirable chemicals with less hospitality laundries harmful biodegradable chemicals and at the same time, improves whiteness and quality.
Smart solutions Our broad introduction of RFID technology micro tags in garments and on equipment across Business Lines supports efficient management of stock and workows, creates transparency in user behaviour and customer needs and helps our customers to document compliance in highly regulated areas.
37 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility continued What we said we would do in 2016 a Analyse warehouse network optimisation A responsible a Further develop and automate ourKPIs supply chain a Process enhancements, particularly inforecasting reliability We continue to focus our spend on a controlled group of major suppliers, to maximise savings from supplier a Develop enhanced procurement monitoring to complement relationship management and to optimise compliance developments in supplier withour corporate responsibility policies.
relationship management Our progress in 2016 Procurement and supply Supplier excellence chain management programme a The warehouse network optimisation analysis was completed The central Procurement and Supply We extended our systematic Chain function is in place as a Centre supplier review and engagement a Business review meetings are dataof Excellence for driving continuous initiatives through the implementation driven from KPI dashboards improvement in efficiency and of the Berendsen Supplier a Demand forecasting tools are newly effectiveness, and for managing the Excellence Programme.
installed and being used extended supply chain.
Agility to take This programme encapsulates our advantage of supply opportunities, and a Supplier dashboards monitoring quality management mission to robustness of risk management, are delivery and quality performance have ensure quality systems are in place key focus areas.
been rolled-out to drive data-based for the Procurement and Delivery supplier review meetings of consistent and enhanced quality Procurement and Supply products, improving Berendsens a e-sourcing platform implemented Chain performance competitive position.
During 2016, improving process, compliance and we launched a supplier performance Budget and savings targets were efficiencies, driving sustainable results again surpassed against a backdrop monitoring tool to support structured in sourcing activities reviews of measured performance with of further improvements to customer service.
In 2016, internal supply suppliers, complementing our Supplier Relationship Management process.
chain throughput continued to grow Next steps and priorities and enabled cost leverage against for2017 unfavourable headwinds in currency a Commence implementation for and production region ination.
the warehouse network design opportunities identied a Fully leverage investments in Claude Sada forecasting tools to drive cost and Director, Berendsen service improvements Excellence a Further extend the reach of EDI automation projects to minimise cost per transaction and processing errors Comprehensive audit programme a Strengthening of the supplier quality When we engage with suppliers, we evaluate management function their ability to meet the highest standards in relation to environmental protection, a Development of a dedicated website health, safety, human rights and employee for suppliers to provide instant welfare.
Furthermore, we conduct external auditing programmes.
In 2016, in total nine access to tools that provide relevant textile suppliers were audited in Bangladesh, information for purchase orders, Pakistan, Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, invoicing, payments and access to our China and India.
key policies 38 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements What we said we would do in 2016 a Continue with our current approach todrive further operation environmental efficiency by: Operational Focusing on energy environmental usage reduction efficiency W orking with our chemicals suppliers Monitoring fuel usage, driver We acknowledge that water, energy, chemicals, behaviour and routes to look for oilandgas WECO are scarce, precious and further efficiencies in logistics  and we are committed andtransport toreducing quantities andimproving efficiency.
Reviewing the environmental related KPIs Environmental management Environmental performance Our progress in 2016 We are committed to reducing the We monitor performance of WECO a A high numbers of initiatives impact of our operations on the efficiency at site level.
Targets are set acrossbusinesses and geographies environment.
Across the Group, we out in the sites budgets and these are have been delivered in 2016. continually review and investigate ways regularly reviewed by management.
Some examples of these are: to reduce WECO usage.
All businesses WECO gures are monitored monthly In the UK, we invested in high are expected to adhere to our per site via a database.
This allows us pressure presses that remove environmental policy which requires to react quickly and identify trends the water from the linen more them to: across all laundries and ensure efficiently requiring reduced reliable benchmarking.
a Engage with suppliers to research energyfor drying, as well as in ways to minimise the amount and Our computerised production moreefficient batch tumble dryers concentration of detergents used monitoring systems allow sites to In the Cleanroom laundry in in our laundries and disposed of in monitor current production efficiency Bolsward, Netherlands, the effluent, and opportunities for low and generate historic reports.
temperature washing As a result, the electricity We adopt the Greenhouse Gas consumption was reduced a Routinely recover water for re-use Protocol methodology to assess our byapproximately 20% carbon footprint.
a Minimise heat usage loss, energy The re-building and new buildings loss and fuel usage projects within Workwear brought us the opportunity to introduce a Recycle textiles, paper and state-of-the-art technology packaging materials wherever this and processes.
For example is possible the rebuild of the laundry in Dietzenbach, Germany, reduced water and energy consumption byapproximately 40% Group CO emissions 2 kg tonne shipped Next steps and priorities Our total CO emissions 2 for2017 411 402 3% 379 kg of CO2 per tonne of laundry shipped 364 353 a Investment in optimised dryer controls reduction 2016 2015 to reduce dryer energy in the UK Workwear 478 486 a Deliver further improvement on Facility 241 255 WECO-efficiencies with the newly Healthcare 364 373 formed House of Excellence audits Hospitality 336 344 KPI Group total tonnes of 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CO2emissions 242k 235k 39 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Heading Essential every day Warmer welcome 40 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements 13:00|Prague, the Czech Republic Ela welcomes an important potential customer at the reception.
She knows that a good first impression means everything.
The exclusive design of the Berendsen mats helps to ensure that.
Now, its up to the Sales Director to take over and land the deal.
