Corporate responsibility and sustainability As a Group, Bodycote is committed to acting responsibly as a good corporate citizen, to reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities and to providing our employees with a safe working environment.
28 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Bodycotes stakeholder model shows how its interactions on various levels contribute towards socioeconomic growth and development.
These exchanges, based on mutually beneficial relationships, provide the basis for the Groups growth and sustainability, which in return provides Busibenefits to employees, investors, suppliers, customers, the public sector ness and wider society.
review Investors Funders Capital is rewarded through dividends and share price.
Capital Return on Funds Investment Employees Customers 5,500 employees Our services are provided knowledge, expertise and skill are a major part of the aerospace, defence, Groups intangible value.
energy and general 239.5m was paid out as Productivity Sales industrial industries.
Remuneration Services Bodycote: Provides thermal processing services that improve material properties such as strength, durability and corrosion resistance, which in turn...
Improves the lifetime and Products performance of products Supports businesses and protects lives Payment Suppliers Suppliers profit from the location of the Group in Society local communities and from the Groups need for Bodycote generates wealth long-term stable supply for society and contributes partnerships.
to socioeconomic development through its Services Taxes sustainable business practices, investments Public Sector Tax payments fund services available to the public.
In total employer social taxes, net VAT, corporate and other transactional taxes amount to 132.5m for the year.
com 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued 1 Our approach Accident frequency Bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns 1.9 1.7 through the provision of selected thermal processing services that 2 1.5 1.5 1.4 are highly valued by our customers.
We aim to achieve this in a safe working environment, while continually seeking to minimise the impact on the environment.
Bodycote is dedicated to improving the management of corporate 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 responsibility issues and is implementing policies and initiatives to achieve this goal.
The future success and growth of the Group is intrinsically linked to our ability to ensure the Groups operations are sustainable and that we can nurture and develop our talent.
3 Carbon footprint 4 tonne CO e m sales normalised Our people 2 The strength of the Group primarily rests in its people and one 586.7 583.4 565.1 558.4 of the key challenges for management is to ensure availability of 535.6 appropriately qualified people to support its continued growth.
Bodycote is fortunate to have a competent and committed international team that is well-respected in technical and business circles.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Bodycote invests in the training and development of its people both at local and Group level.
At a local level the Group is committed to providing the appropriate skills and technical training which will allow its employees to operate effectively and safely in their roles Water consumption and deliver excellent customer service.
At Group level a number 3 4 thousand m m sales normalised of initiatives are currently being rolled out to drive excellence in management.
1.53 1.45 1.46 1.33 1.26 A tool to develop further understanding and skill in the area of performance management is in place and is being used globally through the management population.
Through communication of clear messages coupled with skills development, the organisation 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 aims to raise the capability of its management population in driving performance.
This initiative is backed by a performance management system which supports the process.
Chlorinated solvents Bodycotes employment policies are non-discriminatory, complying 4 kg m sales normalised with all current legislation to engender equal opportunity irrespective of age, race, gender, ethnic origin, nationality, religion, 142.6 126.5 health, disability, marital status, sexual preference, political or 106.1 105.8 100.5 philosophical opinions or trade union membership.
Female representation on our Board is currently 17% 2015: 17% and at manager level it is 25% 2015: 24%.
We will increase female representation on the Board if appropriate candidates are available when Board vacancies arise.
Accident frequency is defined as the number of lost time accidents x 200,000 hours approximately 100 man years, divided by the total number of employee hours worked.
The accident frequency rate for 2015 has reduced from 1.5, as previously reported, to 1.4, following a correction to hours worked for one region that had previously omitted overtime hours from submissions of total hours worked.
CO e is carbon dioxide equivalent, which represents the CO release due 2 2 to our energy usage.
Normalised statistics restate prior year figures using current year IEA carbon conversion factors and current year average exchange rates.
30 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Core Values The Modern Slavery Act It is not just important what we do but how we do it and how Bodycote has conducted a risk assessment on our supply we behave in our Company.
How we operate as a Group and the chain using the UK Governments published guidance entitled behaviours that we expect from all our employees are expressed in Transparency in Supply Chains.
Suppliers, in those countries our Core Values.
Our values represent Bodycote and its people and identified in Walk Free Foundations 2016 Global Slavery Index as our commitment to the Company and the business.
being the most vulnerable to human rights issues in the supply chain, have been identified for further review and audit.
Such Our Core Values are straightforward and are as follows: suppliers are mainly based in Turkey, Poland, Romania, Czech Republic, UAE and China.
Honesty and T ransparency We are honest and act with integrity.
Trust stems from honesty We have a Code of Conduct which sets out our policy on and trust is at the heart of everything we engage in: our customers compliance with legislation, child labour, anti-slavery and human trust us to deliver what we say we will, our colleagues trust us trafficking, and conditions of employment, health and safety and the to act in their best interests and our suppliers trust us to conduct environment.
business according to agreed terms.
This is not something we take for granted.
Bodycote lives by a culture of honest and transparent The Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking statement was approved by behaviour, which is at the core of all our business relationships.
our Board of Directors in September 2016 and was published on our website.
The statement will be reviewed on an annual basis.
Respect and Responsibility We manage our business with respect, applying an ethical Customers and suppliers approach to our dealings with those with whom we interact.
We Bodycote has no significant suppliers who are wholly dependent respect our colleagues, who are all of the employees of Bodycote.
upon the Groups business and has no significant suppliers on Part of our respect for our colleagues is our commitment to which the Group is dependent upon for a substantial part of its safe and responsible behaviour and our fundamental belief that business.
Suppliers are paid in line with contractual and legal no-one should come to any harm at work.
We show respect for obligations.
our customers, our suppliers and our competitors.
We respect We endeavour to respond quickly to changing customer demand, the communities around us and behave as responsible corporate to identify emerging needs and to improve service availability and citizens by being compliant with the laws and regulations of the quality.
We stay close to our current and potential customers, countries in which we do business and by ensuring that our effect building long-term relationships.
on the environment is minimal.
We believe in taking ownership for, and being mindful of the impact of, our actions.
Community Bodycote seeks to play a positive role in the local communities Creating Value in which it operates by providing employment opportunities, Creating value is the very essence of our business and needs to be and building goodwill and a reputation as a good neighbour and the focus of our endeavours.
We create value for our customers, employer.
our employees and our shareholders.
If we do not create value for our customers then we have no reason for Responsible business ethics existence.
If we do not create value for our employees there will All Bodycote personnel are expected to apply a high ethical be no-one to create value for our customers.
Our shareholders standard, consistent with an international UK-listed company.
rightfully require that we ultimately create value for them as they Directors and employees are expected to ensure that their personal are the owners of the business.
interests do not at any time conflict with those of Bodycote.
Shareholder employees are advised of, and comply with, the share Human rights dealing code.
Bodycotes human rights policy is consistent with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Global Compacts ten Bodycote has systems in place that are designed to ensure principles.
compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and conformity with all relevant codes of business practice.
Furthermore, Bodycote We prohibit forced, compulsory and underage labour and any does not make political donations.
form of discrimination based on age, race, gender, ethnic origin, nationality, religion, health, disability, marital status, sexual With regard to competition, Bodycote aims to win business in a preference, political or philosophical opinions or trade union differentiated high-value manner.
The Group does not employ unfair membership.
Appropriate mechanisms are in place to minimise the trading methods and it competes vigorously but fairly within the potential for any contravention of these rules.
Employees are prohibited from either giving or receiving any inducements.
By publicly posting our human rights policy on www.
com, stakeholders worldwide can alert us to potential breaches of the Our Open Door Policy has been translated into all languages used policy.
Our internal systems also support compliance with our policy throughout the Group.
The policy allows employees to report their and we have a robust Open Door Line for employees to report concern confidentially, verbally or in writing, to an independent alleged violations of law and or our policies on a confidential basis third party provider, ensuring anonymity.
Reports are transcribed and in their own language.
In the jurisdictions in which we employ a and sent to the Group Head of Risk, who then determines the majority of our employees, there are laws applicable to many of the appropriate steps for the matter to be addressed.
areas dealt with in our human rights policy.
Online training courses in respect of Anti-Bribery and Competition Law have been designed and translated into the major languages used throughout the Group.
All relevant employees have completed the interactive courses.
com 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued All reportable incidents and lost time injuries are reviewed during Operational SHE performance executive management meetings and Board meetings.
In addition, Bodycote is committed to continual improvement in our safety, the executive management team reviews incidents which did not health and environmental performance SHE.
We are committed to result in injury but were considered to have been serious or to complying with all local legislative requirements as a minimum and have had a high potential impact.
All serious incidents and high establishing consistent and robust best practices at all of our sites potential incidents are also reviewed by the Group SHE Committee to deliver consistently high performance across all aspects of SHE and are cascaded within the business as appropriate to ensure that management.
This system was further strengthened Safety and health in 2015 with actions being tracked via the online incident The nature of the Groups operations is such that employees are management system.
inevitably exposed to hazards in the workplace.
Bodycote aims to Environment manage these hazards and thereby minimise risks to employees A proactive approach to improving energy efficiency means that through the deployment of robust safety control systems and Bodycote has implemented a variety of systems to reduce water procedures, and seeks to establish these at all sites.
and gas consumption, and to re-use heat energy.
The ongoing effort Bodycotes online incident reporting and SHE management tool to lessen the impact on the environment has resulted in Bodycote has been operational since 2013.
This has enabled more consistent seeking ISO 14001 accreditation at all of its facilities.
In addition, and thorough reporting of workplace injuries, near misses and many of our sites are in the process of obtaining ISO 50001 Energy unsafe conditions.
Following the implementation, there was an Management Systems Standard.
increase in the lost time injury rate frequency LTI rate in 2013 as At every stage where Bodycote is involved in the manufacturing sites were better able to record and report incidents.
In 2016, the cycle, our operational aim is to reduce the overall impact on the LTI rate increased from 1.4 to 1.5.
Note that the LTI rate was stated environment, not just in our own operations, but also those of as 1.5 in the 2015 Annual Report.
Due to a correction in the hours our customers.
Bodycote operates modern, efficient equipment, worked for one region, the 2015 LTI has been recalculated as 1.4. which is operated around the clock so as to optimise treatment Given the effort and resource put into improving safety in 2016, the processing cycles.
Without Bodycote, many companies would be increase of 0.1 is disappointing although, on a positive note, the using older in-house technology and running their equipment at number of serious or high potential incidents declined by 11.5%.
reduced capacity, both of which drain energy resources.
Working Accidents, though regrettable and unacceptable, represent learning with Bodycote enables our customers to commit more easily to opportunities.
This is the reason that accurate reporting is an carbon reduction initiatives.
essential part of building a robust safety management system.
Bodycote also reduces the carbon footprint of our customers Accident frequency lost time injury rate activities by increasing the lifespan of their products, by improving Accident frequency is defined as the number of lost time accidents metallurgical properties and by enhancing corrosion resistance.
x 200,000 hours approximately 100 man years, divided by the total For example, surface treatment technology is widely used in the number of employee hours worked.
reclamation of damaged and worn components, offering a costIn addition to encouraging the reporting of work related injuries, effective and energy-efficient alternative to the need to manufacture Bodycote has sought to encourage the reporting of near misses new replacement parts.
The treated parts often last up to 20 times and unsafe conditions.
This has worked well since the introduction longer than the original.
of the new global incident reporting system in 2013 and a common Whilst thermal processing is an energy-intensive business, it is a near miss unsafe condition reporting system at every operational vital part of the manufacturing supply chain and its use saves the site.
This much improved reporting of incidents permits us to energy it consumes many times over.
address hazards before injury occurs.
As our database continues to develop we will be able to analyse and prioritise our safety action programmes more effectively.
Greenhouse gas emissions 2016 2015 2015 normalised CO e Intensity CO e Intensity CO e Intensity 2 2 2 emissions ratio emissions ratio emissions ratio ktCO e tCO e m ktCO e tCO e m ktCO e tCO e m 2 2 2 2 2 2 Scope 1 137.5 229.1 147.8 260.5 147.8 234.6 Scope 2 184.0 306.5 204.5 360.5 204.0 323.8 Statutory total 321.5 535.6 352.3 621.0 351.8 558.4 Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006.
Normalised statistics restate prior year emissions using current year IEA carbon conversion factors and current year average exchange rates.
32 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Stacking up the benets Modern thermal processing techniques have allowed engineers and manufacturers to signicantly extend component lifetimes.
Through the effective use of thermal processing, parts can be consolidated and component performance enhanced leading to reduced downtime and maintenance costs.
115% longer life higher yield strength for steel in upstream applications achieved with in alloy steels for tooling undergo Bodycotes CiD process carburising to gain superior wear and fatigue resistance vital enabler with heat treatment processes by Bodycote, oil & gas components can perform in some of the Earths harshest environments 80% the reduction in welding using Bodycotes Powdermet technology for highly integrated, complex subsea manifold systems 5X longer downhole life for mud rotors using Bodycote Surface Technology increased corrosion resistance for critical offshore drilling components with Bodycotes plasma or gas nitriding thermochemical case hardening process 33 Stock code: BOY www.
com 35 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions resulting from fuel usage Systems Standard.
This enables sites to measure energy usage and the operation of facilities.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect consistently and target the most effective ways of reducing energy emissions resulting from purchased electricity, heat, steam energy usage.
Our sites in France, Germany, Austria, Denmark and or cooling for own use.
Netherlands are largely already certified and working on further energy management programmes.
The financial control consolidation approach has been used to report the above data.
This method aligns with the reporting Bodycote uses established systems to develop best practice scope in the financial statements.
The Group collects electricity at specific sites and across the wider Group.
Examples of 2016 and natural gas usage information from each facility on a monthly projects undertaken across Bodycote sites are discussed below.
The Group then applies the UK Governments Department In France, an engineering project group was established to for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA published national determine energy and water saving opportunities from water carbon conversion factors to calculate the total tonnage of CO e 2 cooling systems.
Data was compared across all French sites and produced.
Group operational management actively monitors their trials were undertaken at two sites Beaugency and Billy Berclau monthly CO e emissions reported and the Groups Executive 2 using the latest generation of closed loop water cooling systems.
Committee reviews the level of CO e emissions on a monthly basis.
2 Beaugency and Billy Berclau both achieved a reduction in electricity All entities and facilities under financial control are included within consumption of 32% and 48% respectively, as well as a reduction the disclosure.
Emissions less than 1% of the Groups total CO e in water usage by 58% and 68% respectively.
2 relating to fugitive emissions and owned vehicles are not significant In Germany, the Essen site introduced a similar technology and a and are excluded.
As such there are no significant omissions from process gas optimisation project has identified a CO e saving of an 2 this disclosure.
impressive 308 Te CO e. Other energy saving projects in Germany 2 ISO 14001 accredited facilities include an investment in a heat recovery system at Ludenscheid, Reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities is which saved 43.6 Te CO e. 2 taken very seriously.
Compliance with the requirements of ISO At the Coventry site, a project to install vacuum pumps reduced 14001 helps to minimise the risk of adverse environmental effects annual CO e by 39.7 Te.
Similarly, replacement compressors at 2 at Bodycotes sites.
At the end of 2016, 89% of our operating the Kitchener plant in Canada achieved an estimated 21 Te CO e 2 facilities had achieved ISO 14001 accreditation 2015: 91%.
slight reduction is due to the closure of a number of existing certified sites and the acquisition and construction of new sites Since 2013 Bodycote has submitted data on CO e usage to the 2 which have yet to attain ISO 14001.
Operational plants which Carbon Disclosure Project, one of the leading carbon reporting have not yet received accreditation to the standard are working and verification bodies.
Each year the Company has improved its towards it.
standing in the league tables and is now a C relative to general business groups and is rated significantly higher on verification Carbon footprint and water consumption of data.
The absolute energy usage decreased by 8.7%.
At constant exchange rates, it decreased by 8.6%.
Chlorinated solvent use The use of chlorinated solvents in Bodycotes thermal processing The total CO e emissions per m sales in 2016 were 535.6 Te 2015: 2 activities has been reduced in recent years as aqueous degreasing as previously reported 535.4 Te: normalised 558.4 Te.
In 2016, the normalised solvent use The Groups total CO e emission data is based on Scope 1 and showed a slight decrease of 0.3% compared with the previous year.
2 Scope 2 emissions, as defined by the UK Governments DEFRA, Cautionary statement and data relating to this has been calculated to include countryThe Strategic report has been prepared solely to provide specific electricity conversion factors.
In previous years this has information to shareholders to assess how the directors have been supplied by DEFRA directly.
However, as of January 2017 performed their duty to promote the success of the Group.
DEFRA no longer supplies these conversion factors for non-UK companies.
This has now been sourced by the Group directly from The Strategic report contains certain forward-looking statements.
the International Energy Agency IEA.
There are some significant These statements are made by the directors in good faith based on differences in these conversion factors.
As a result, all previous the information available to them up to the time of their approval of years have now been restated using IEA conversion factors to this report and such statements should be treated with caution due ensure that year-on-year comparisons are consistent.
to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking information.
On a normalised basis, water usage per m sales increased by 9.8%.
On a non-normalised basis, water usage per m showed a Approval small decrease of 1.4%.
The Group Strategic report of Bodycote plc was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: In 2015 our EU-based operational sites reviewed their operations to ensure compliance with the Energy Efficiency Directive 2012 27 EU.
This Directive is transposed into local legislation and requires S. C. Harris sites to monitor their energy usage and assess energy reduction Group Chief Executive opportunities which are in addition to the ongoing energy saving 28 February 2017 activities on sites.
One mechanism for ensuring compliance is for sites to become certified to ISO 50001 Energy Management Normalised st atistics restate prior year emissions using current year IEA carbon conversion factors and current year average exchange rates.
34 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing
