Our corporate social responsibility CSR priorities A review of our operational processes is ongoing to ensure that Introduction we deliver for our customers.
This is our second year reporting under our revised We conducted our bi-annual staff survey in September and CSR framework.
We continue to update and October 2016, with a response rate of 66%, an increase of 5% amend our CSR strategy with feedback from our over the previous survey.
The survey indicated an engagement customers, employees and other stakeholders.
score of 83%, which compares well to 78% in 2014.
It was This report provides an update on our performance especially impressive note that 97% of respondents said they during the year and further information, including care about the future of the Company and this allows us to relevant policies, can be found on our website, continue to improve on our responsibilities as a home builder.
For each response received, the Group agreed to provide a 10 donation to the regional charity funds, with 7,770 being provided to good causes that are close to our employees.
Highlights: During the year the Group made an important commitment to Launch of our Vision, Mission and Values the nation and signed up to its own Armed Forces Covenant.
97% of our staff survey respondents care about the Bovis Homes is proud to be a supporter of the Armed Forces future of Bovis Homes, with an overall engagement Covenant and is committed to ensuring that our nations Forces score of 83% personnel past and present, and their families, are treated with respect and fairness.
In recognition of this commitment, Winner of the Armed Forces Covenant Bronze Award, Bovis Homes recently received the Bronze Award of the Defence following our commitment to the Armed Forces Employer Recognition Scheme.
Further details, including our Covenant during 2016 commitments, can be found on our website.
Reduction in Annual Injury Incident Rate Our focus on engaging with our sub-contractors has begun to Increase in our affordable housing provision show dividends, with daily activity briefings now being operated across substantially all of our sites.
It is pleasing to note that our health & safety performance has improved with a reduction in Our customer satisfaction rating has fallen below the standard the Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR to 620 2015: 719. we would expect to a 2 Star level.
We recognise that our This compares to the HSE Construction AIIR of 398. customer service has to improve and are committed to getting this right.
We have been working with our employees to redefine and launch our Vision, Mission and Values as part of the changes required to put the customer at the heart of all we do.
Our Vision Proud of every home: built by people who care Our Mission To operate a highly respected home builder where we attract caring people who act with integrity to ensure we safely build quality on time Our Values 32 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility | Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Our performance against our priorities is set out below 2016 performance People - priority Return our HBF customer satisfaction rating to 4 Star Ensure consistent delivery of the Customer Journey Improve near-miss reporting Reduce the annual injury incidence rate Embed daily activity briefings Reinforce our core values across the enlarged Group Embed the leadership values into the business through comprehensive senior leadership development programme Launch a Managing Effectively programme for middle managers Continue to recruit ex-Armed forces personnel for our Trainee Assistant Site Management programme Continue to develop our apprenticeship programme 2016 performance Environment - priority Reduce active waste per home Reduce active waste sent to landfill Reduce inert waste brick and block per home Reduce our GHG emissions against our chosen intensity measures Continue to support the development of sustainable and ecologically diverse living environments 2016 performance Community - priority Continue to develop our strategic partnerships with registered social landlords Continue to build on our relationships and support our sub-contractors and suppliers Work with local stakeholders to identify community priorities for improvements on our new sites Continue to encourage and support our staff in their fundraising efforts for local good causes Priority not met Priority partially met within range Priority met Bovis Homes Group PLC | 33 People Priorities for 2017 Employees 2016 2015 Improve our HBF customer satisfaction rating 1 Total staff turnover % 27% 26% Improve customer service training Formation of homebuyers panel New roles created 191 128 Employees Employee engagement score 2014 83% Performance vs priorities bi-annual survey 78% Reinforce our core values across the Training days completed no.
2,892 2,634 enlarged Group 1,253 1,062 Total staff Embed the Leadership values into the business through comprehensive senior % female staff 36% 36% leadership development programme Number of apprentices recruited 29 36 Launch a Managing Effectively programme for middle managers Health and safety 2016 2015 Continue to recruit ex-Armed forces Annual injury incidence rate 620 719 personnel for our Trainee Assistant Site Near-misses reported 2,764 4,265 Management programme Continue to develop our apprenticeship Directors tours 640 628 programme CSCS carded site workforce % 95% 92% The Group has been busy with a number of initiatives focused Customer 2016 2015 on its employees and their engagement and wellbeing.
We have been working with our employees to redefine our HBF customer satisfaction rating 2 Star 3 Star Vision, Mission and Values, and this has been well received 1 Includes voluntary and planned leavers e. g. resignation and retirement by staff.
This has been supported by a refresh of our human resources and training strategies.
The Group has also recruited Customers a Head of Talent to oversee, amongst other things, training Performance vs priorities and personal development within the business.
We conducted our bi-annual staff survey in September and Return our HBF customer satisfaction rating to 4 Star October with a response rate of 66%, an increase of 5% over the previous survey.
The survey indicated an engagement Ensure consistent delivery of the score of 83%, which compares well to 78% in 2014.
It was Customer Journey especially impressive to note that 97% of respondents said they care about the future of the Company and this allows us The Groups HBF customer satisfaction rating has dropped to continue to build on our responsibilities as a home builder.
to 2 Star at the end of the year 2015: 3 Star.
The Group Group level feedback has been provided to staff and our recognises that its customer service has to improve and is regional businesses will be reviewing their own areas of the committed to getting this right.
A taskforce led by a senior survey to see what they can do to improve the wellbeing and manager was established in 2016 to help rectify the problems welfare of our staff.
faced by a small number of our customers who have waited Feedback from the survey also showed the positive effect extended periods to have remedial works carried out or where of the changes made following the 2014 survey, with staff customers have not received the standard of service that we indicating their belief that changes can be made.
The Group is also reviewing all operational processes to identify the required changes to ensure we consistently deliver a high standard of home and service in the future.
34 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility | Strategic report Corporate social responsibility The Group operates solely in the UK and complies with all relevant The Group continues to operate both a defined benefit pension scheme and a defined contribution pension scheme.
It also legislation and regulations.
The Group continues to apply its operates a stakeholder pension for construction staff.
The Group employment policies to not discriminate between employees, or has a Share Incentive Plan, Save As You Earn share option scheme, potential employees, on the grounds of gender, sexual orientation, a Share Option Plan and a Long Term Incentive Plan to motivate age, colour, creed, ethnic origin or religious belief.
employees and encourage strong involvement with the Group.
Bovis Homes passionately believes in equality and diversity Staff are kept informed of the Groups performance and matters of for all.
To that end, we have an Equal Opportunity policy which concern or interest to employees via the Bovisnet intranet service, a is rigorously enforce and promoted.
In addition, Bovis Homes has news magazine and emails that are sent to all staff.
Consultations never been the subject of litigation alleging discrimination.
It is are held at staff meetings and personal briefings are provided by Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment elected employee representatives.
Each regional business meets needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled regularly with employee representatives to discuss matters that may whilst employed by the Group where requirements may be impact staff.
The Executive Leadership Team provide presentations adequately covered by these persons and to comply with any to staff at all regional offices at key points in the year.
The Group current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
The Groups conducts an employee engagement survey on a bi-annual basis.
policies are supported by the Groups Dignity at Work policy which prohibits bullying, harassment or victimisation.
The Group has continued to grow during 2016 with an additional 191 new roles created.
At 31 December 2016, the Group directly Whilst Bovis Homes does not formally recognise a Trade Union, employed 1,253 people 2015: 1,062.
In common with the it is supportive of its employees rights to freedom of association construction industry, the majority of our site-based population including the right to form and join trade unions.
Employees often is employed by our sub-contractors.
During the year, our average bring Trade Union members as representatives to formal meetings workforce population was 5,161 2015: 4,313. and we value their input.
Director and employee profile Bovis Homes supports the Minimum Wage and ensures that all The following table shows the gender split within the Group as employees are paid in excess of it.
The Group has not been found at 31 December 2016.
In common with the construction industry, to have failed to pay the Minimum Wage and remains an ardent the majority of the workforce is male at 64%.
While a lower supporter of it and its aims.
proportion of senior management and directors are female, the Bovis Homes is moving towards compliance with the principles of Group encourages and supports diversity, including gender.
As at the Construction Industry Joint Council CIJC Handbooks even 31 December 2016, there were ten senior managers all male who though it does not formally recognise the same.
were directors of Group subsidiaries.
The Group believes that it has a key role to play in ensuring that Analysis by role and gender employees have an appropriate work life balance.
To that end, we Role Male Female Total are committed to working towards ensuring that no employees Non-executive directors 4 1 5 work excessive hours.
In addition, we seek to minimise weekend Executive directors 2 0 2 and late night working to an absolute minimum and then only Senior managers 14 1 15 when it is essential.
When it does occur, Bovis Homes seeks to Managers 154 65 219 redress the balance by giving people time off in lieu.
Moreover, the Group has introduced a process of buying and selling holiday.
Site and sales staff 365 140 505 Bovis Homes also encourages flexible working which allows Support staff 214 237 451 employees to leave work early on a Friday.
Apprentices 52 4 56 As part of the commitments we have made for our Total 805 448 1,253 Armed Forces Covenant, we have also been exploring further Analysis by age ways to support employees that are active reservists.
of % employees In 2016, the Group adopted an Anti-Slavery and Human 21 years 62 5.0 Trafficking Policy in support of its efforts to combat modern slavery.
A statement in line with the provisions of the 21 30 years 226 18.0 Modern Slavery Act 2015 is available on our website.
31 40 years 249 19.9 41 50 years 311 24.8 In line with our peers, the total employee turnover rate increased slightly to 27% 2015: 26% due to the increasing demand for 51 60 years 317 25.3 skilled staff within the house building industry.
We work hard to 60 years 88 7.0 attract and retain the talented people that we need and ensure Total 1,253 100 that they are appropriately rewarded.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 35 People Training We have continued our investment in training during the Bovis Homes Armed Forces Day year, spending 756,000 2015: 331,000 on employee training in support of the Groups policy to train and develop employees to ensure that they are equipped to undertake the functions and tasks for which they are employed, and to provide the opportunity for career development equally and without discrimination.
Training needs are identified against the Groups H&S core training matrix and where there are role specific training requirements.
Training needs are further discussed with individual employees as part of their probation and annual appraisal.
In addition to this, training needs can be identified The Bovis Homes Armed Forces Day on other occasions, either by senior directors as a result of event, held at Exeter Rugby Clubs a change in business need, or as a result of an individual Sandy Park stadium, was arranged changing position or being promoted.
The Group has an to celebrate Bovis Homes and educational sponsorship policy to support employees personal Exeter Chiefs signing of the Armed development and will meet course expenses, including allowing Forces Covenant during the halfday release, where appropriate.
time interval of their Premiership match with Saracens.
Employees continue to receive regular training covering topics such as health, safety and environmental matters, The event was also attended by senior military personnel IT, management, sales and customer care.
A total of 2,892 including Lieutenant General Sir John Lorimer, President training days were delivered during the year via our Group of the Army Rugby Union, and representatives of the Learning & Development team 2015: 2,634, equivalent to Invictus foundation.
Additional training is The Armed Forces Covenant is a promise from the nation also arranged by our regional businesses where they identify that those who serve or have served, and their families, are specific needs.
treated fairly when accessing both public sector and private The Group operates the Build Academy Induction on a quarterly services.
Businesses, local authorities and charities are all basis.
This is a four day residential training course for all new being encouraged to sign the covenant.
site-based management which provides bespoke training As part of its commitment to the covenant, Bovis Homes covering site health & safety, production and customer care.
will continue to help ex-servicemen and women to find All new starters attend the centralised company induction new roles in the company through the Career Transition on their first day with the company.
They receive a welcome Partnership CTP, as well as supporting staff members who personally from a member of the ELT followed by subject choose to be members of the Reserve forces.
A new unique matter experts providing key information on subjects such as discount scheme is also being rolled out.
HR, H&S, learning and development and IT.
This is a major The Bovis Homes Armed Forces discount scheme, which was step forward in generating a team ethos from day one and also launched at the event, will be open to serving forces is complemented by regional and functional induction at the personnel regular and reservists.
It allows service personnel normal place of work from day two.
to combine buyer assistance schemes with a package of During 2016, six ex-military employees that started the trainee offers from the company, in order to purchase their own assistant site manager programme in 2015 were promoted to Bovis home as simply and affordably as possible.
Lieutenant General Sir John Lorimer commented: Our Apprenticeship scheme has continued to develop with Bovis Homes has today joined the ever-growing list 29 new apprentices joining the Group during the year.
of organisations who have signed the Armed Forces Covenant.
As one of the UKs major house builders we are Priorities for 2017 delighted that they have pledged to offer such significant Embed our core values across the Group and new joiners discounts to Armed Forces Personnel, in conjunction with the Governments Help to Buy and Forces Help to Continue to develop our apprenticeship programme Buy schemes.
Review ways to improve employee engagement 36 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility | Strategic report Corporate social responsibility.
Performance vs priorities Health and safety Improve near-miss reporting NHBC Seal of Excellence Reduce the annual injury incidence rate Pride in the Job Congleton site manager Embed daily activity briefings Steve lands top award Our focus during 2016 has been on worker engagement at site level supported by senior management through safety director tours.
Daily activity briefings DABs have been A Congleton site manager has proved himself to be one of introduced to almost all of our sites during the year.
They provide the best in the business after landing a high-profile award at an opportunity for site management to communicate with suba prestigious industry event.
contractors and those on site on tasks scheduled to occur that day Steve Jones was given a much sought-after Seal of and particular risks that may arise as a result.
They also provide a Excellence award by the National House Building Council forum for sub-contractors to provide feedback and for near-misses for his work at Bovis Homes Loachbrook Meadow to be discussed and improvements implemented.
He was one of only 12 site managers across The absolute number of near-miss reports has reduced compared the whole of the North West to receive the accolade.
Feedback from the site management teams A delighted Steve said: Its a great honour to win the indicates that an increased level of communication at the DABs award and I accepted it on behalf of all the Bovis Homes provides a better forum for learning from issues, with feedback team and contractors here at Loachbrook Meadow, who provided to other sites and the rest of the business via the Health are working hard every day to deliver quality homes, while and Safety team.
We will continue to monitor near-miss reports keeping an absolute focus on health and safety.
but do not intend to target a specific number.
Communication is key when it comes to running busy Site staff have been supported with best practice videos of DABs to building sites like this.
Its important to have clear messages ensure that all stakeholders get the most from this process.
that everyone can understand and buy into, and also Following feedback from the management teams, the Group listening and taking on board what others have to say.
modified its approach to managing the risk of falls from height.
We communicate well at Congleton and were one big This has been achieved by changing from fall arrest to fall team looking to deliver quality homes, look after our prevention systems with the introduction of birdcage customers and be safe while we do it.
This has been successfully rolled out across the business.
In addition, revised forklift truck health Steve, aged 31, has been a site manager for four years, checks were also introduced.
and started his working life at Ben Bailey Homes as an apprentice brick layer.
He has been at Bovis Homes for The Groups senior leaders also completed Leading Safely training nearly nine years.
from the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health and a Leading Safety Differently workshop.
This is part of our drive to Bovis Homes Mercia Managing Director, Jo Morrison, promote the integration of health and safety, and develop the right said: I am so proud of Steve and his hard-working team behaviours, at all levels of the business.
Were all delighted with his success and the award is a testament to the attention to detail and The Group has been developing a new site induction process to be commitment that Steve brings to his work in delivering undertaken by all visitors to construction sites.
It will be followed quality new homes for our customers.
by a short test to ensure inductees have understood the content.
In order to enhance the engagement level during the induction The Seal of Excellence Awards is the second stage of the process, an induction video is planned to be introduced in 2017.
NHBCs Pride in the Job competition.
It follows the Quality Awards, which were presented back in June.
The developments and the site managers have been judged by NHBC specialists, with every stage of the build inspected ensuring meticulous and consistent attention to detail.
Site managers must also demonstrate excellent leadership, technical expertise and robust health and safety processes.
People The Bovis Homes Safety Awards recognise excellent performance in health and safety at our sites.
The judging took place in November 2016 with nine sites winning Regional Excellence Awards.
Four sites were Highly Commended and went through to compete for the Group Excellence Award.
The Group is pleased to announce that our Warwick site received the Group Excellence Award.
The superb examples of health & safety identified during the judging for the awards has been shared with the Regional Build Directors for implementation across the business.
Alongside the Bovis Homes Safety Awards, the Group competed with other house builders in the National House Building Councils Pride in the Job Awards, where four of our site managers were selected from more than 16,000 site managers working across the country to receive Quality Awards.
Our team at Loachbrook Meadow, led by Steve Jones, went on to win the next level of award, the Seal of Excellence.
The Groups overall health and safety performance is improving with a reduction in the annual injury incidence rate over the year and a continued focus on enhancing our performance during 2017.
Priorities for 2017 Reduce annual injury incidence rate Improving leadership behaviours Enhancing the quality of workforce engagement Increasing the awareness of occupational health risks 38 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility | Strategic report Corporate social responsibility.
Woodlands Dawlish Bovis Homes Group PLC | 39.
Environment Priorities for 2017 KPI 2016 2015 Refine our waste reduction strategy Active waste diverted from landfill 93% 94% Reduce active waste per home Active waste generated per home Reduce active waste sent to landfill 3.93 3.2 tonnes Set target for active waste per plot Total GHG emissions per legally 1.61 1.40 Greenhouse gas GHG emissions completed unit Performance vs priorities Active waste is non-hazardous waste that is likely to change in composition e. g. decay in landfill, such as packaging, wood or plastic.
Reduce our GHG emissions against our chosen intensity measures Waste Performance vs priorities We continue to recognise the importance of climate change and minimise our impact on the environment.
Reduce active waste per home Our impact on climate change also means that careful thought is given to the homes that we build.
Our preference is for Reduce active waste sent to landfill a fabric first approach to ensure that the heating of space, which has the greatest impact on a homes energy efficiency, is Reduce inert waste brick and block mitigated as far as possible within the actual construction per home of homes.
We continue to review green energy provision on our The Group recognises that as a leading national home builder developments, including the use of photovoltaic roof tiles it needs to minimise its impact on the environment.
We always in place of traditional panels.
Our development at aim to operate efficiently, reducing waste and minimising the Stadhampton includes provision for all homes to incorporate energy and natural resources we use.
The Group aims to produce an average of 4.5 tonnes of waste per home.
Of this, the majority is active waste.
Performance and methodology Disappointingly, it has exceeded this target during 2016, GHG emissions have been reported from all sources required producing 6.1 tonnes of waste per home.
A review during the under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and year identified a number of differences in the way that waste Directors Report Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within has been measured by each regional business and a standard the Groups operational control.
The Group does not have approach is in the process of being agreed.
We have joined responsibility for any emission sources that are not included the House Builders Federation Waste Group which is in the consolidated financial statements and are outside the focused on reducing waste in the construction of new homes.
Our work with the Waste Group will enable us to benchmark During the year, measures were operated to collect emissions our current waste strategy and set targets for reducing waste data from our construction sites.
Where this data was and increasing recycling and reuse rates.
We will also be incomplete at the year end, we have extrapolated total working with our suppliers and sub-contractors to review emissions by using i an averaging approach to extend data our processes and procurement methods in order to meet to a full year for sites with part-year data, and ii applied an these targets.
average calculated from all sites to sites returning inadequate Despite the increased level of waste, the Group continued to data.
The calculations allow for sites which opened and closed divert almost all of its waste from landfill to other uses at 93%.
We continue to research and develop more efficient build GHG emissions have been calculated using emission factors processes and modern methods of construction which should from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company reduce the amount of waste generated from our activities.
Scope 1 emissions arise from the consumption of gas at our facilities, diesel on construction sites and UK business mileage in fleet cars.
Emissions from air conditioning in offices have been excluded as not being material.
Scope 2 emissions represent purchased electricity.
40 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility | Strategic report Corporate social responsibility We work closely with local authorities to retain and protect trees Greenhouse gas GHG emissions data for the period 1 January wherever possible and provide mature environments for local 2016 to 31 December 2016 with prior year comparatives wildlife populations.
Where trees are removed, we aim to provide a Emissions from: 2016 2015 2014 Unit net improvement to the number of habitats, through planting and the inclusion of bird and bat boxes and other wildlife habitats.
Combustion of fuel at our facilities and construction All sites are reviewed at acquisition stage to determine the likely 4,780 4,168 4,168 sites as well as fleet vehicle ground conditions and the type of surface water measures use Scope 1 emissions required to limit surface water discharge and any potential for localised flooding.
This involves active consultation with the Purchased electricity 1,627 1,324 1,527 Environment Agency and water authorities to ensure that there Scope 2 emissions is, as a minimum, no impact from our development on local Total GHG emissions flood conditions.
Our approach is not to acquire sites on flood 6,406 5,492 5,695 Scope 1 and Scope 2 plains and to incorporate sustainable drainage systems where appropriate for the development.
Companys chosen intensity measurements: We specify Forestry Stewardship Council FSC or PEFC certified timber is used for all of our developments.
i Total GHG emissions per 1.61 1.40 1.57 legally completed unit Barry the bat ii Total GHG emissions per 1,000 sq ft legally 1.54 1.36 1.57 completed Tonnes of CO e 2 Tonnes of CO e per legally completed unit 2 Tonnes of CO e per 1,000 sq ft legally completed 2 There has been increase in GHG emissions against our chosen intensity measures as a result of an increase in fleet vehicle use and the opening of three additional regional offices to support the Groups operations.
Often our proposals for new developments include plans to provide accommodation for wildlife too.
Priority for 2016 Reduce our GHG emissions against our chosen intensity measures.
Our Bidford-on-Avon location in Warwickshire was a case in point as our pre-construction ecology assessments Open space, ecology and sustainable discovered a bat, soon nicknamed Barry by the regional water management team, taking residence in a derelict building that had been earmarked for demolition.
Performance vs priorities To keep the impact on Barry to a minimum during the Continue to support the development of construction of the new homes, the regional team sustainable and ecologically diverse worked closely with a specialist ecologist to review the living environments options available.
The goal was to ensure this nocturnal resident could be rehomed in the least stressful way and as Our developments are about more than just homes and the close to his original habitat as possible.
incorporation of open space and communal areas is considered at an early stage.
The team communicated closely with Natural England as the plans were drawn up, and having obtained a licence from All of our sites are subject to extensive pre-construction them, new bat boxes could be installed at the development assessments.
Our ecology assessments include an evaluation of ahead of the buildings demolition.
the suitability of habitats for protected species and proposals to mitigate the impact of our developments more generally.
Barry has now been safely rehomed and is enjoying life on Mitigating measures can include translocating species and creating the development.
An archaeological assessment will also be undertaken to determine whether a site is likely to contain archaeological remains and any mitigating actions that may be required.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 41 Community We continue to work with our supply chain to ensure timely KPI 2016 2015 delivery of our homes in an environmentally and socially aware way.
Our suppliers and sub-contractors are involved at an early Affordable housing completions 1,074 848 stage in site development to ensure adequate resource planning is in place and health & safety remains a number one priority.
S. 106 CIL commitments 26.7m 56.8m The use of local and regional suppliers means that our developments provide benefits for the wider community, through Education commitments 12.7m 31.6m job creation and opportunities for other local businesses to support the development.
Affordable housing We collaborate with our supply chain on the development Performance vs priorities of skills for the industry, with our apprenticeship programme incorporating secondments to learn key construction skills.
Continue to develop our strategic We offer work experience placements to those attending school partnerships with registered providers and college.
We work with our suppliers to provide innovative designs and Working collaboratively with our public sector partners is products as well as providing training on topics such as health and central to the way we operate and we are proud to be playing safety and modern slavery.
During 2017 we will be organising a key role in tackling the countrys housing supply challenge.
workshops with our groundworks contractors on safe practices We work with local authorities and registered providers RPs around buried services.
to ensure that affordable housing on the majority of our In return for our commitment, our suppliers must meet our developments in a way that meets local needs.
anti-bribery and ethical conduct standards.
A whistleblowing During the year we continued to build on our affordable procedure is in place to support our contractors and their staff.
housing offering by working with RPs and government agencies to offer a range of different tenures providing solutions that Priorities for 2017 meet the affordable housing needs of our partners and the Continue to build on our relationships and support our subcommunities in which we work.
contractors and suppliers We offer Help to Buy and our own Trinity Discount Scheme for Community and infrastructure improvements Armed Forces personnel as part of our Armed Forces Covenant.
Performance vs priorities We have been working with a number of providers to develop a bespoke specification for the homes we deliver to RPs in Work with local stakeholders to identify response to the growing demands they are under.
community priorities for improvements on Of our 3,977 homes 2015: 3,934 completed in 2016, 1,074 our new sites were sold to RPs, representing 27% of the homes we sold 2015: 848 and 22%.
Through local consultation processes we have made certain commitments relating to the sites we have acquired Priorities for 2017 during 2016.
These commitments vary from development Continue to develop our strategic offering to assist with to development, based on the local needs, but will usually affordable housing incorporate provision for education, health services and open spaces.
These commitments represented approximately Supply chain 13,000 per home for developments acquired during 2016.
Performance vs priorities Our overall level of S. 106 CIL and education commitments have reduced compared to the prior year as a result of fewer total Continue to build on our relationships and plots being acquired from a lower number of sites.
support our sub-contractors and suppliers During the planning phase for our developments, we always seek to incorporate leisure and amenity areas together with integrating developments into local public transport infrastructure.
Where appropriate, local resident travel vouchers may be provided to encourage use of public transport.
42 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility | Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Our larger developments will often include provision of a local school, which will also benefit the local community.
Chair cheer for Cheltenham charities Our Cloakham Lawns development in Axminster, Devon has continued its partnership with the Ferne Animal Sanctuary located close by with a free 12-month subscription offered to all new home buyers at this development.
This follows on from our sponsorship of an accessible plaque-rubbing trail located at the sanctuary.
The engraved plaques were designed by local wildlife artist Patrick Moran and include pictures of a frog, toadstool, ferns, kingfisher, deer, oak and acorn.
Our St Georges Park development in Stafford also received the Best Homebuilder Development Central England prize in Zooplas Buyers Choice Homebuilder Awards thanks to support from its residents.
Bovis Homes Western region, which is based in Bishops Cleeve, invited staff and members of the public to its Charity ex-showhome furniture sale, helping to raise funds for the Performance vs priorities Motor Neurone Disease Association and Cancer Research UK.
With furniture ranging from desks and drawers to tables and Continue to encourage and support our staff in sofas, and home accessories including ornaments, cushions their fundraising efforts for local good causes and lamps for sale, the event saw more than 100 people visit and raise 1,800, to be split between the two charities.
During 2016 Bovis Homes has been busy with many fundraising Further furniture items from the showhomes were also events and local sponsorship opportunities.
Staff have been donated to Sue Ryder Care Hospice in Leckhampton.
involved in activities and supporting local good causes.
We have Bovis Homes Site Start Sales Co-ordinator, Charles Bond, continued to make facilities available to staff, with local said: Were thrilled that we were able to raise this fantastic fundraising days.
Charitable donations and sponsorship are amount for two worthy causes.
Our show homes are managed by each regional business to ensure that local causes uniquely designed, and once it they have been sold we no and charities important to staff are given priority.
Our staff have longer require the furniture, so this is a great opportunity to raised 19,000 to support local good causes.
raise some extra funds for our annual charity and to finish Our West Midlands region took part in the Yorkshire 3-Peaks the year on a high.
challenge in partnership with a contractor and raised over 12,000 from donations from staff, family and friends.
Selected by staff in January, the company has been raising funds throughout the year for the charities by dressing down As an incentive for staff to complete the employee survey, we on Fridays, baking and selling cakes and holding raffles.
agreed to make a 10 donation for each completed survey to the regional charity funds.
It is pleasing to note that over 7,700 was raised to support worthy causes across the business.
Our customers have also been involved, Bovis Homes agreed to make a donation of 25 to Children in Need for each completed customer satisfaction survey.
This resulted in 5,225 being donated in November 2016 following 209 completed responses.
Strategic report approval The Group continues to support the Fifty Foundation, which The strategic report outlined on pages 2 to 47, incorporates the provides grants to support former employees in receipt of a Bovis financial highlights, the chairmans statement, the strategic review, Homes pension to assist with replacement windows or boiler the chief executives review, the financial review, the risks and repairs and oversees visitors for eligible pensioners.
uncertainties review and corporate social responsibility review.
By Order of the Board Earl Sibley Interim Chief Executive 20 February 2017 Bovis Homes Group PLC | 43 44 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility | Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Winchester Village Winchester Bovis Homes Group PLC | 45
