Role of the committee Safety, ethics and environment The role of the SEEAC is to look at the processes adopted by BPs assurance committee SEEAC executive management to identify and mitigate significant non-financial risk.
This includes monitoring the management of personal and process safety and receiving assurance that processes to identify and mitigate such non-financial risks are appropriate in their design and effective in implementation.
Key responsibilities The committee receives specific reports from the business segments as well as cross-business information from the functions.
These include, but are not limited to, the safety and operational risk function, group audit, group ethics and compliance, business integrity and group security.
The SEEAC can access any other independent advice and counsel it requires on an unrestricted basis.
The SEEAC and audit committee worked together, through their chairs and secretaries, to ensure that agendas did not overlap or omit coverage of any key risks during the year.
The SEEAC has continued to monitor Members closely and provide constructive challenge Alan Boeckmann Member since September 2014 to management in the drive for safe and and chair since May 2016 reliable operations at all times.
Paul Anderson Member since February 2010 Frank Bowman Member since November 2010 Cynthia Carroll Member since June 2007 Chairmans introduction Ann Dowling Member since February 2012 The SEEAC has continued to monitor closely and provide constructive John Sawers Member since July 2015 challenge to management in the drive for safe and reliable operations at all times.
This included the committee receiving individual reports on the companys management of highest priority group risks in marine, Meetings and attendance wells, pipelines, explosion or release at our facilities, and major security There were six committee meetings in 2016.
The committee also undertook a number of field visits see every meeting for which they were eligible, with the exception page 67 as well as maintaining its schedule of regular meetings with of Cynthia Carroll who did not attend the committee meeting on executive management.
14 December due to a conflicting external board meeting.
A particular highlight was confirmation in January that all 26 of the Bly In addition to the committee members, all SEEAC meetings were Report recommendations had been completed across the global wells attended by the group chief executive, the executive vice president organization GWO.
At the same time, we received the final report from for safety and operational risk S&OR and the head of group audit Carl Sandlin, the independent expert we engaged in Upstream, in which or his delegate.
The external auditor attended some of the meetings he reported to the committee that such completion had occurred.
Carl and was briefed on the other meetings by the chair and secretary had provided valuable insights and advice to the GWO around safety in to the committee.
The group general counsel and group ethics wells and process safety more generally, and we were grateful to him and compliance officer also attended some of the meetings.
the conclusion of each meeting the committee scheduled private Paul Anderson stepped down as chair of the committee in May, having sessions for the committee members only, without the presence of been the chair since 2012.
I am grateful for the opportunity to chair the executive management, to discuss any issues arising and the quality committee and we all wish to thank Paul for his service.
Alan Boeckmann Committee chair 74 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Corporate governance Activities during the year Committee evaluation For its 2016 evaluation, the committee examined its performance System of internal control and risk management and effectiveness through a questionnaire and interviews by external facilitators.
Topics covered included the balance of skills The review of operational risk and audit.
In addition, the group and experience among its members, the quality and timeliness of performance forms a large part of ethics and compliance officer information the committee receives, the level of challenge between the committees agenda.
met in private with the chairman committee members and management and how well the committee and other members of the communicates its activities and findings to the board.
Group audit provided reports committee over the course of on their assurance work on the The evaluation results continued to be generally positive.
system to inform the review.
members considered that they continued to possess the right During the year the committee mix of skills and background, had an appropriate level of support The committee also received received separate reports on and received open and transparent briefings from management.
regular reports from the group the companys management of All committee members emphasized that field trips remained chief executive on operational risks in: an important element of its work, particularly because they risk, and from the S&OR gave committee members the opportunity to examine how risk function, including quarterly Marine management is being embedded in businesses and facilities, Wells reports prepared for executive including management culture.
Joint meetings between the Pipelines management on the groups Explosion or release committee and the audit committee were considered important in health, safety and environmental at our facilities reviewing and gaining assurance around financial and operational risks performance and operational Major security incidents where there was overlap between the committees, particularly in integrity.
These included Cybersecurity process control relation to ethics and compliance see below.
of personal and process safety, environmental and regulatory The committee reviewed these compliance and audit findings.
risks and their management and The committee also received mitigation in depth with relevant quarterly reports from group executive management.
Independent expert Upstream Mr Carl Sandlin completed his to the committee that all 26 role as an independent expert recommendations in the Bly in providing oversight regarding Report had been completed by the implementation of the Bly the end of 2015.
We thank him Report recommendations.
for his work with the committee In January 2016, he reported since 2012.
Field trips In August the committee and on operations, the status of other directors visited Alaska.
conformance with the operating The visit encompassed both the management system OMS, Anchorage office and a trip to key business and operational review operations on the North risks and risk management and Joint meetings of the audit and safety, ethics and Slope.
In November they visited mitigation.
Committee members environment assurance committees operations of the US Lower 48 then reported back in detail about During the year it was decided to hold standalone joint meetings business in Durango, Colorado.
each visit to the committee and In December they visited the subsequently to the board.
See of the audit committee and SEEAC on a quarterly basis in order Geel petrochemicals facility in page 67 for further details.
to simplify reporting of key issues which were within the remit of Belgium.
In all cases, the visiting both committees and make more effective use of the committees committee members and other time.
Each committee retains full discretion to require a further directors received briefings presentation and discussion on any joint meeting topic at their respective meeting if deemed appropriate.
The committees jointly met four times during 2016, with Corporate reporting chairmanship of the meetings alternating between the chairman of the audit committee and the chairman of the SEEAC.
The committee is responsible The committee reviewed content At these meetings the committee reviewed ethics and compliance for the overview of the and presentation, and worked and business integrity reports including significant investigations BP Sustainability Report 2016. with the external auditor with and allegations, together with the annual ethics certification and respect to their assurance of the 2017 forward programmes for the group audit and ethics and the report.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 75
