Value to society We aim to have a positive and enduring impact on the communities in which we operate.
We contribute to economies through our core business activities, such as helping to develop the national and local supply base, and through the taxes we pay to governments.
Additionally, our social investments support communities efforts to increase their incomes and improve standards of living.
For example, in Egypt we support healthcare in the communities that are closest to our West Nile Delta project by funding emergency equipment for local hospitals.
We run programmes to help build the skills of businesses and develop the local supply chain in a number of locations.
In Angola, for example, we have supported the foundation of local businesses, providing community members with technical and hands-on training.
Our enterprise and development programme in Azerbaijan helps local companies build their skills so that they can improve their competitiveness when bidding for work with international firms.
We aim to recruit our workforce from the community or country in which we operate.
At our Tangguh LNG plant in West Papua, Indonesia, more Caption: Operations at the Rumaila oil field in southern Iraq.
than half of our workforce is Papuan.
This is a direct result of internship and apprentice programmes that focus on training graduates from Papua and Papua Barat.
We are committed to reaching an 85% Papuan workforce by 2029.
We are working towards alignment with the UN Guiding Principles on We contributed $61.1 million in social investment in 2016. Business and Human Rights by implementing our human rights policy.
com society for more information on how we are maximizing value Our focus is on identifying and addressing human rights risks, including to society.
those associated with the recruitment and living conditions of contracted workforces on our sites, and on enhancing community grievance Tax and financial transparency mechanisms and channels for workforces to raise their concerns.
We contribute to economies around the world through the taxes that we pay.
We paid $2.2 billion in income and production taxes to governments in In 2016 our actions included: 2016 2015 $3.5bn, 2014 $8.0bn.
Initiation of a review examining the risk of modern slavery, focusing on the parts of our business and supply chain where we believe there could BP is committed to complying with tax laws in a responsible manner be greater risk.
and having open and constructive relationships with tax authorities.
We participate in initiatives to simplify and improve tax regimes to encourage Development and piloting of a human rights due diligence process that investment and economic growth.
We also support efforts to increase public can be used to screen suppliers in a consistent way anywhere in the trust in tax systems.
The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI supports disclosure Evaluation of key sites community complaints mechanisms against the of payments made to, and received by, government in relation to oil, gas Guiding Principles to identify good practice and areas for improvement.
As a member of EITI, BP works with governments, Continued implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and non-governmental organizations and international agencies to improve the Human Rights, with periodic internal assessments to identify areas for transparency of payments to governments.
BP discloses information on payments to governments for our upstream See bp.
com humanrights for more information about our approach to activities.
We report on a country-by-country and project basis as required human rights.
by UK regulation which incorporates the EU Accounting Directive.
These payments could be made in the form of production entitlements, taxes, Local environmental impacts royalties, bonuses, fees and infrastructure improvements.
We also make payments to governments in connection with other parts of our business We work to avoid, minimize and mitigate environmental impacts such as the transporting, trading, manufacturing and marketing of oil and gas.
com tax for our approach to tax and our payments to governments We consider local conditions when determining which issues would benefit report.
At a site close to communities, for example, the immediate concern may be air quality, whereas a remote desert site may require greater consideration of water management issues.
Human rights We strive to conduct our business in a manner that respects the Water rights and dignity of all people.
BP recognizes the importance of managing freshwater use and water discharges in our operations and we review our water risks annually.
We respect internationally recognized human rights as set out in We consider the local environment and quantity, quality and regulatory the International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour impacts.
We assess different approaches for optimizing water Organizations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
consumption and wastewater treatment performance.
For example, at We set out our commitments in our human rights policy and our code of our Khazzan operation in Oman, we treat wastewater from our sewage conduct.
Through our code of conduct, employees are required to report treatment plant and re-use it for irrigation, road construction and dust any human rights abuse in either our operations or those of our business suppression, reducing freshwater demand in an area of water scarcity.
44 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016
