Corporate Responsibility Rising engagement, driving performance Although there is still clear room for improvement, we are Our people - helping them be as great as they can generally pleased with this outcome, not least because we were At Brewin Dolphin, we believe that a company can only deliver starting from an already high score.
We also found some very sustainable long-term value to its shareholders if it has a skilled, substantial reasons for satisfaction when we looked more deeply experienced and engaged workforce.
We also believe strongly in into results beyond the headline score itself, which is based on a virtuous circle where performance drives engagement and just five of the 45 questions asked in the survey.
As a result, the third of these attributes is the most important to us engagement is the In total 90% of questions were scored higher than in 2015, and foundation on which we build everything else.
some of these showed very significant improvements.
For example, the positive response to thestatement I have sufficient Thats why we focused so closely in 2016 on initiatives aimed opportunity to get involved in Brewin Dolphins Corporate directly or indirectly at strengthening the engagement of all our Responsibility activities doubled, rising from 34% to 68%.
teams, no matter whether they are client facing or in support Brewin Dolphin demonstrates good support for worthy causes roles, based at our head office or in our branch network.
received a 21 percentage point increase in endorsement from These initiatives were largely a continuation of work we started in 57% to 78%, and support for I believe the organisation is 2015, although several are still very much in their growth phase.
committed to equal opportunity and valuing diversity grew by Closely interconnected by their positive impact on engagement 14 percentage points to 64%.
We can directly correlate many of levels, they fall broadly into the categories on which we the improvements achieved with initiatives we undertook during expand below.
However, while we are very pleased to be moving in the right A rising engagement score direction, we are aware that we are not as yet in the top quartile In many ways, 2016 offered a testing market and operational for employee engagement among the FTSE 100 companies with environment that contributed to the pressure felt by many of our whom we compare ourselves.
Our focus is on making more people during the year.
We are embedding some significant progress in years to come.
changes to the way we work, and this added more gravity to the challenges experienced by employees at every level.
Culture and engagement Given the nature of the internal and external working environment, Ultimately, all the actions taken by our people are informed by our we were pleased by the findings of Your Future, Your Say, our culture and have an impact on engagement.
These are some of second annual staff survey carried out independently by People the initiatives that focused specifically on these areas: Insight.
This showed the headline engagement score of our workforce move upwards by two percentage points from 76% Employees and clients identify our brand values in 2015 to 78%, three percentage points ahead of the financial When seeking to identify the living and breathing values that services industry benchmark of 75%.
differentiate and guide Brewin Dolphin, we invited those people who are most important and closely involved to undertake the work.
So not only did we invite 120 staff members to participate in a series of focused workshops, we also sought the opinions of 78% clients and prospects.
This was an approach that removed any Employee engagement score 46 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION and greater visibility of senior managers and Board members.
The survey findings demonstrate that people are aware of these efforts to improve.
Driving diversity At Brewin Dolphin we appreciate that a diverse workforce allows us to benefit from a range of views and perspectives helping us to deliver on our strategy.
Wehave a dedicated Diversity and Inclusion Committee made up of members from throughout the organisation which addresses matters relating to gender, race, age and sexual orientation.
We have female representation on the Executive Committee of 10% one in ten : this has reduced from one in six in 2015, due to the expansion of the Executive Committee discussed on page 25.
Across the Group, we have an employee headcount of 1,583 of which 693 44% of our employees are women.
We are aware that there is considerable room for improvement, particularly in the racial and gender balance of our workforce, and we have implemented the following initiatives: Employee engagement through volunteering Women @ Brewin Four teams from our London office took part in the Business in the Communitys Give & Gain day in May 2016.
Women @ Brewin is a new initiative that enables our female Teams spent the day at a primary school, two community employees to meet and discuss career issues with high-profile centres and a YMCA all within easy reach of our Smithfield role models.
These include our female Directors who represent office.
Each team set out to improve the physical 37% of the Board as well as people from outside the Group, environment of their chosen location, with plenty of painting, such as Professor Heather McGregor, Executive Dean of weeding, digging and planting going on to help create Edinburgh Business School and until recently author of the cleaner and tidier environments for those who use weekly Miss Moneypenny column in the Financial Times.
Gender in recruitment and promotion We are very pleased that more than half 55% of the senior risk of artificially creating and enforcing values.
Rather, it enabled client-facing new hires we made during 2016 were female.
In us to uncover our values of: addition, when we opened our newbranch in Cambridge we Genuine heartfelt advice, delivered by people who care.
appointed a female manager to run it.
Expert skilfully facilitating important decisions.
Maternity and related initiatives Ambitious making more of lifes opportunities.
Our Maternity and New Parent social network, launched in 2016, encourages and enables support for people balancing Building our Engagement Partner network parenthood and the demands of work.
We have also introduced Every office and department now has an official Engagement new and better guidance for individuals and managers both Partner who oversees an annual action plan of activities that before and following maternity leave.
And we have improved drive greater commitment, loyalty and satisfaction among our our maternity leave policies, as well as introducing time off people.
This initiative had a direct impact on meaningful for fostering.
improvements in engagement during the year.
Unconscious bias training Streamlining internal communications We launched an unconscious bias training programme in The improvement highlighted above in how our people perceive 2016, attended by managers across the Group including the internal communication is an early result of a carefully conceived Chief Executive, to help employees across our network recognise effort to enhance information flows.
During 2016, we initiated a and overcome any bias resulting from their cultural environment, better planned, more joined-up and thoughtful set of processes personal experience and background.
As part of a fully revised supporting communication from the top.
These included regular approach to diversity when seeking new employees, we also updates frommanagement, better internal use of social media instructed the recruitment agencies we work with to take measures to avoid unconscious bias when assessing candidates.
co. uk 47 Corporate Responsibility continued Performance management Learning and development We make every effort to be as good as anybody in our industry in We understand that reward is an important factor behind terms of training, both to enable our people to excel at their jobs engagement, so we strengthened the alignment between and to reduce the risk of clients not gaining the right outcomes.
performance and compensation during the year.
This involved We therefore constantly review our performance against the strengthening the performance review for all employees, which market place, and adapt our activities to ensure we are a took into account individuals behaviours and client outcomes leader in this area.
as well as financial success.
Performance management and business development Stewardship Wehaveestablished a Stewardship Committee to ensure We also continued our successful Aspire mentoring scheme, and that discretionary clients interests as holders of securities launched a series of management seminars and learning initiatives are protected and, where appropriate, to ensure proactive to improve in the areas of performance management, motivation shareholder action is taken in the best interest of its discretionary and leadership skills.
And, as mentioned in the Chief Executives clients.
We give our clients the first opportunity to vote the shares Review, we invested heavily in the business development for which they are the underlying beneficiary using our online capabilities of our people.
In the closing days before each AGM, wevotethe balance of each shareholding not voted by clients Succession and career planning and over which we have discretion for the majority of the stocks Leadership development was an area of particular focus, held in our nominees.
Brewin Dolphin publishes the aggregate and we undertook a full succession planning process in 2016, voting record for these companies on our website after each including the identification of the high-potential leaders of the AGM.
For more information on ourStewardshipPolicy please future.
In parallel, we invested considerable effort in designing see our website brewin.
clear career paths for employees, and were pleased to see the fruits of this work come through in the results of our employee Tax strategy engagement survey.
Support for the response I understand We take our corporate responsibility seriously with respect to the options available for me to progress my career rose by taxation and aim to be a good corporate citizen by bearing our 12 percentage points.
fair share of the tax burden while at the same time safeguarding our reputation and relationships with clients, shareholders and Talent tax authorities alike.
While we are mindful of our obligations to shareholders to ensure tax efficiency, we use only legitimate tax Emerging talent and apprenticeships reliefs for the purposes for which they were intended and do not We grew our emerging talent programme by 50% during 2016, take partin aggressive tax planning or condone tax avoidance as with 30 employees including a high proportion of new graduates both would contravene our ethics and conservative culture.
We also launched a formal business driver of our tax strategy is to reduce risk as our appetite for tax support apprenticeship programme in our Newcastle-upon-Tyne risk is low.
We also aim to promote tax awareness among our office, with the potential to expand into other offices.
staff so that our processes and controls encompass best practice and keep pace with changing tax legislation and requirements.
Tax governance is embedded in our formal governance structure to ensure that we are in compliance with tax law in all territories in which we operate.
Shape Your Future with Inspire Aspire Mentoring Guide Email: aspirementoring@brewin.
co. uk Other Corporate Responsibility initiatives At any career stage, Mentoring is a great way to access valuable support and insights from someone who has walked a similar path.
Charitable and community activities As a Mentee learn new approaches to work that help achieve personal and career aspirations.
Our charitable and community activities are the sole area of I gained so much and My Mentor was would recommend this so supportive and to anyone that wants interest of our Corporate Responsibility Committee.
This reports approachable, which to further and improve made the whole process themselves.
to the Board twice a year on activities carried out throughout As a Mentor use your knowledge and experience to benefit others the Group.
It is very rewarding to use I had not expected Chaired by a client-facing business professional, the Committee ones own experience to help to gain so much as colleagues develop careers.
is deliberately close to the business in the communities where It is very refreshing to see the world from the other end the majority of our Corporate Responsibility activities take place.
As a locally focused organisation, our Corporate Responsibility Considering Aspire mentoring as a Mentee or Mentor?
activities enable us to express our culture and values within To learn more contact aspirementoring@brewin.
co. uk or speak to your CDP communities where our clients live and work.
48 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION This is aligned with our goal of building long-term relationships with our clients.
As we strengthen our relationships with our clients, we strengthen our relationship with their communities.
2016 was a very important year for Corporate Responsibility at Brewin Dolphin.
Not only did we carry out a great deal of work on helping our people across the branch network co-ordinate their activities for greater impact, we also formalised much of what we do and put more resource behind several initiatives.
For example, we expanded the role of our Corporate Responsibility Manager to become a full time role, doubled our commitment to payroll giving, created a paid-for volunteering scheme across theGroup and launched a dedicated Corporate Responsibility section on our website.
Highlights of the year include: Partnerships: we renewed and expanded our commitment to London to Paris Sponsored Bike Ride the Enabling Enterprise organisation, in which school children learn enterprise skills and gain insights into the world of work On Sunday 22 May 2016, 42 Brewin Dolphin cyclists from by visiting our offices.
We hosted 12 office visits across our 12 offices, led by former England footballer and blood branches nationwide.
cancer survivor Geoff Thomas, arrived in Paris to complete the four day 500km Brewin Dolphin sponsored ride.
The Volunteering: every employee can now spend a working day team, part of a 200-strong group that rode to Paris to raise a year volunteering in the community.
In the year to 30 funds for blood cancer charity Cure Leukaemia, were elated September 2016, our people had volunteered for a total of to have completed the gruelling ride raising 100,000 for 2,124 hours.
Brewin Dolphin was awarded the Cure Matched payroll giving: we doubled our matched payroll giving Leukemia Corporate Partner of the Year 2016 Award.
limit to 20 a month during 2016 andas a result, we received a Gold Award from the Charities Aid Foundation.
Fundraising matching: we offer an employee fundraising matching scheme and excluding our donations, staff raised including the Great Yorkshire Show, the Borders Book Festival, a magnificent 218,000 during the year.
the Highland Sports Fair, the Cheltenham Cricket Festival and Small grants: we awarded 31,710 through 42 small grants the Shrewsbury and Taunton Flower shows.
Work experience programme: we ran a number of events in Environmental activities Birmingham and London to encourage local students to get At Brewin Dolphin, our main environmental impacts are through a flavour of our working environment.
largely UK-based travel and the consumption of resources and The Brewin Dolphin Foundation makes donations to emissions at the buildings in our branch network.
We do all international disaster appeals and this year donations were we can to reduce any such impacts asmuch as we can, made for events including Hurricane Matthew and the Ecuador through sensible policies and initiatives including Green IT earthquake in line with employee wishes.
Please see page99 for our full environmental statement.
We also put a great deal of emphasis on internal communications.
This included the launch of Making a difference magazine, Supplier initiatives dedicated campaigns supporting the payroll giving and volunteering initiatives as well introducing a Corporate Even though we arelargely UK based, we are aware of the risks Responsibility section on the newly launched Brewin website.
associated with a supply chain that crosses borders, potentially We believe such activities contributed greatly to the dramatically into nations where employee rights do not match our own improved response to the Corporate Responsibility statement in standards.
We take our responsibilities very seriously in this area the 2016 staff engagement survey from 34% to 68%.
and are taking those actions necessary to understand our supply chain and carry out any required remedial activities that we identify.
As we seek to strengthen relationships with local communities, we also seek marketing opportunities that wherever possible deliver a favourable community outcome.
We were again very active on this front in 2016, and we contributed to events brewin.
