The Strategic Report 7 Delivering our strategy With EE joining the enlarged group, weve embraced the Design Council opportunity to combine the best of both cultures.
Creating possibilities for employees is at the heart of this.
The Design Council is a sub-committee of BT Group plcs Operating Committee.
It is collectively responsible for During the year we had five values to guide our people: Customer, aligning our capital investments in our networks, systems, platforms and Team, Honesty, Change and Pride.
But were changing as a business products so that they are directed towards achieving our overall purpose so feel the time is right for a refreshed set of shared values.
We and strategy, serve the needs of all of our customers and are delivered in asked our people what they thought.
We asked our customers a cost-effective manner.
too they said they want us to understand their needs, be easy to deal with and show we care.
So from next year our values will be: FINANCIAL STRENGTH Personal.
We have the financial strength to make bold decisions and to invest A global workforce in the things that set us apart.
At 31 March 2016 we had 102,500 full-time equivalent FTE employees in 61 countries, with 81,400 of them based in the UK.
Our goal is to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth.
This includes 12,800 who joined the group as part of EE.
Together with further transformation of our costs, we aim to grow our EBITDA and cash flow over the long term.
Were one of the largest employers in the UK, supporting its economy by providing jobs and income.
We have a prudent financial policy and strong governance over our decisions to make investments, manage our debt and grow This year, excluding acquisitions, we recruited over 11,400 people, our business, and over how we reward those who work for us and bringing fresh ideas and new approaches to help us innovate, learn invest in us.
Of these, more than 4,200 work in the UK.
To build our business, we will continue to make bold decisions, and We continued to transform our HR function, reviewing our systems, be prepared to make strategic investments.
This has allowed us to simplify further the way we work and to improve the service our HR team At the same time as investing in our five strategic growth areas see offers our people.
page 2, we intend to reduce our net debt which increased after our acquisition of EE.
As our business evolves to meet the needs of our customers, we adapt our organisation, redeploying people through the BT Well also continue to support the pension fund and to do so transition centre.
This helps us avoid redundancies.
Last year in in a responsible way.
And well pay progressive dividends to our the UK, 1,000 people were redeployed, meaning that we retained shareholders.
experienced people with the skills we need for the future.
Our financial strategy has been consistent for a number of years, it is this approach gives us the financial flexibility to make longRecruiting talented people term investments in the best interests of the company and our A customer-connected workforce stakeholders: and also in the best interests of communities where Improving the quality of our customer relationships is at the heart we operate.
Our financial strength has underpinned the investments weve Weve built on previous years, recruiting 900 new field engineers made in BT Sport in recent years, and which well continue to make and more than 900 new people to work in customer-facing roles in the years ahead.
And it meant that in January 2016 BT Group in our UK contact centres.
Weve also converted 600 agency plc were able to complete the acquisition of EE, the leading mobile workers to permanent employees, so that we keep their skills and network operator in the UK.
It means we can invest over 3bn to help take fibre broadband to Highest-ever graduate intake 95% of the country by the end of 2017, with plans to go even In 2015 16 we hired 300 graduates globally, our highest intake further.
And with the right investment and regulatory environment, to date, bringing us up to around 500 graduates in total.
Were well invest in ultrafast broadband to 10m premises with an planning on hiring around 300 again in 2016 17. ambition of reaching 12m by the end of 2020.
We were again in the top half of The Times Top 100 Graduate It also means we can support the business in other ways.
Were one of only four companies in the IT and telecoms example, by making sure we continue to innovate and stay at the sector to feature in the top 100. forefront of a rapidly-changing industry.
And by investing in the training, development and support we give to our people.
Hiring more apprentices We hired 550 new apprentices into eight business operations a learning a range of skills.
Demand for apprentices continues to OUR PEOPLE grow so we expect to hire even more next year.
Every day our people touch the lives of millions, providing products and services which are essential to the fabric of todays society Investing for growth underpinning everything from global trade and industry to Learning matters at BT.
We create meaningful roles so that people economic growth and social infrastructure.
They are at the heart understand what they are responsible for.
We also invest in learning of our ambition to deliver an excellent customer experience and and development to allow our people to build skills and careers to sustainable profitable revenue growth.
deliver successfully for our customers.
The BT Academy helps them do this.
Believing in what we do A clear purpose guides everyones contribution in BT.
By bringing The Academy is not a physical place or building: its a combination together the best networks, technology and products and services of materials, events and activities.
It gives people easy access to the for our customers, we use the power of communications to make a knowledge and skills they need, when they need it, changing the better world.
a Unless stated otherwise, figures in the Our people section exclude EE.
8 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 way they learn and develop.
It is organised across four faculties: annual ICT Leaders Dinner for the last ten years raising 96,000 Leadership, Technical, Customer and Business.
Each faculty supports a number of communities we call Engaging our people professions, providing both structured learning and ways to We continue to focus on the health of our organisation.
From the connect and share with others.
rapid expansion of our Academy, through to the business initiatives that are driving Continuous Improvement across BT, we are Were very pleased with how the Academy has done in its first full investing in a culture of strong employee engagement.
Across the world employees used the Academy website over 400,000 times.
Over 20% of our people each month are now This also benefits our customers.
We believe that highly-engaged sharing information and ideas as well as accessing learning materials employees provide the best experience for customers, helping us to online.
broaden and deepen our relationship with them.
The tools weve developed have won awards gold for Internal Twice a year more than 72,000 people provide feedback on Learning Solution of the Year at the Learning and Performance working for BT through our employee engagement survey.
Our Institute Annual Learning Awards 2016, and silver for Best Use of surveys help us develop a focused people strategy and support Technology in Learning at the Training Journal Awards 2015. action planning at a local level.
Engagement levels have remained stable for the last two years at 3.8 out of a maximum of 5, with a This year has seen many success stories culminating in the National telecoms benchmark of 3.95.
Apprenticeship Finals in January 2016 where we had two finalists.
We also won the Scottish SDS Macro Apprentice Employer Of The We keep our people informed about company results, major Year Award.
business decisions and other things that affect them using a variety of digital channels.
Leaders regularly connect with their Preparing young people for employment teams through roundtable meetings, town hall debates, site visits, With growing demand for digital skills in the UK, we feel wellwebcasts and blogs.
placed to help create a future supply of suitably-skilled people, helping both our own business and the national economy, and We consult with our people or their representatives on a regular creating a brighter future for the countrys youth.
basis, taking their views into account on decisions that affect them.
In the UK we recognise two main trade unions.
The Communication Creating a culture of tech literacy Workers Union represents people in engineering, administration Weve made a long-term commitment to help build a culture of and clerical positions.
Prospect represents managerial and tech literacy.
As our first goal we want to help 5m children by the professional people.
Diversity at work We are doing this by: Diversity is part of our heritage as far back as 1880 Henry Inspiring Kids to connect with exciting and relevant tech Fawcett, who was blind, was appointed Postmaster General.
concepts: Improving the mix of our people remains a priority and, in Enabling Teachers to feel confident to show young people the particular, were encouraging more women to take up a career in way: and technology.
Were proud of our Tech Literacy programmes and Equipping Schools to be able to use technology effectively.
events like the BT Young Scientist and Technology exhibition Were working with our partners the British Computer Society that target young women in education.
Weve run recruitment and the National Schools Partnership to deliver the Barefoot campaigns in Openreach to attract more women into engineering Computing Programme, which helps primary school teachers and redesigned our entry schemes to try to get rid of any across the country deliver the new computing curriculum.
the 2014 15 school year we supported 12,500 teachers, helping 19,000 women now work for us many with flexible contracts.
to give around 340,000 children better teaching in computer Thats 21% of our workforce and more than 11,000 women in science.
Were on track to reach a further 15,000 teachers and our management team corresponding to 26%.
At BT Group plc 400,000 children by the end of the 2015 16 school year.
Board level we aim to have at least 25% female representation on our Board, and it currently sits at 27% three out of 11 Board Getting young people Work Ready members.
Our maternity return rate, measured one year after Were a founding partner of Movement to Work, a voluntary women come back, is 86%, well above the industry average.
collaboration of UK employers committed to tackling youth unemployment.
Our Work Ready programme helps 1624 yearGender is only part of the story.
Our aim is to create an inclusive olds get better prepared for work, building both confidence and culture that values all differences in people.
Research shows their core employability skills.
This often supports people from that diverse teams are more innovative and can deliver a better disadvantaged backgrounds.
experience to an equally diverse customer base.
Our traineeship programme is at the heart of our strategy.
Those This year weve focused on Inclusive Leadership training for senior not currently in education, employment or training can join BT for management teams, specific programmes around working patterns seven weeks of skills development and work experience.
So far over and promoting our #bettertogether culture.
The Race at Work 1,000 young people have taken part in this initiative, with more report we sponsored with Business in the Community will set the than 600 gaining recognised certificates in work skills and business direction for development programmes for our employees from administration.
Many go on to get jobs, either in BT or elsewhere.
black and minority ethnic backgrounds.
a We are a Two Ticks employer and we actively encourage the The Princes Trust recruitment, development and retention of disabled people.
Well BT is part of The Princes Trust Technology Leadership Group, which automatically put an applicant with a disability or long-term health helps thousands of young people turn their lives around each condition, who meets the minimum criteria for a vacancy, through year.
Weve donated use of the BT Tower as a venue for the Trusts a Two Ticks is an accreditation that is given to organisations that are committed to employing disabled people.
