CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Taking care of ALL PEOPLE DIGNITY AND RESPECT We want everyone who works for us, wherever they are, to be treated We believe we should be a major force with fairness, dignity and respect.
for good as well as a major force in Because everything we achieve as a business, we achieve fashion.
Its a huge responsibility, through people.
and a purpose way beyond profit.
ONE PLANET EVERY PRODUCT WAYS OF WORKING RESPONSIBLE Were determined to understand That means partnering suppliers our effect on the world, and who share our standards, working find better smarter and more together to create ever more sustainable ways of working.
responsible, sustainable To find out more: To learn and to teach, to recycle, products that our customers www.
co. uk sustainability reuse and respect, can enjoy with confidence wherever we are on our and with conscience.
N Brown Group plc 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to report that we have successfully launched our CSR Charter entitled Taking care of our world.
We have also completed a full review of the Groups CSR activities and introduced a new three year CSR Ethical Compliance FIONA LAIRD strategy to align our Group sourcing Chairman of the CSR Committee and commercial strategies with our CSR activities.
We believe we should be able to show our passion for fair fashion through our new and existing CSR initiatives including via our continued commitment to our CSR Charter and three year Strategy.
We continue to believe we can be a major force for good as well as a major force for fashion.
Fiona Laird Chairman of the CSR Committee PROGRESS IN 2016 PRIORITIES 2017 Launched Taking Care of Our Further reduce supply chain World, aligning CSR more fully risks through improved supplier to our group sourcing and engagement and more direct commercial strategies.
Established sourcing office in Further improve chemical Bangladesh allowing closer compliance and due diligence.
collaboration with supplies, local partners and civil and government agencies.
Group Green House Gas emissions Introduction of new targets for reduced by 11%.
GHG emissions, waste and water.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 41 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED ALL PEOPLE ONE PLANET EVERY PRODUCT WHERE PEOPLE ARE PROTECTING THE EARTH OUR PRODUCTS SHOULD CONCERNED, SO ARE WE BEGINS WITH RESPECTING IT MAKE PEOPLE FEEL AS GOOD AS THEY LOOK We want everyone who works for us, Were determined to understand our wherever they are, to be treated with effect on the world, and find better The Group has been working closely with fairness, dignity, equality and respect.
smarter and more sustainable ways its suppliers over the last couple of years Everything we achieve as a business of working.
To learn and to teach, to to improve the customer experience we will achieve through people.
recycle, reuse and respect, wherever and promote responsible sourcing.
we are on our big beautiful planet.
This means partnering with suppliers In the last year we have increased levels who share our values and standards.
of CSR training and awareness of our We are looking at opportunities to By working together, we hope to create staff with compliance and ethical trading.
improve the performance of our supply more responsible and sustainable We will continue to invest in this initiative chain to promote more sustainable ways products that our customers can enjoy and roll out more CSR training to staff.
of working such as working with less with confidence.
packaging for our footwear teams and We are proud to be one of the reducing waste within the supply chain.
Since opening our Sourcing Office in founding members of the ACT Action, Dhaka in October 2015, we have been Collaboration & Transformation Working able to work more directly with suppliers Group which promotes fair, living and gain better visibility of our wider wages for individuals working in factories supply chain.
We feel membership of this is important because it allows us to lobby for support at all levels from governments to trade organisations and Civil Society groups.
We continue to work closely with partners on the Shomotha Project in Bangladesh.
The Shomotha Project is a TGVCI Trade in Global Values Chains Initiative, jointly funded by N Brown Group and DFID Department for International Development and promotes gender equality throughout organisations from Senior Management to Operational Staff.
The first tangible results are expected later in 2016.
During 2015 6, we established our first sourcing office in Bangladesh, which has enabled us to work much closer with suppliers, local partners, civil societies and government agencies.
We have 10 staff on the ground in Bangladesh to manage quality and compliance activities throughout the South East Asian region.
N Brown Group plc 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report This has not only helped build better relationships and improve product quality but has enabled us to accelerate our CSR activities where it matters and make product margin improvements.
We continue to be signatories of and active participants in the United Nations Global Compact UNGC and the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI : which underpins our CSR aims.
We will continue to work closely with the UNGC and ETI in 2016 7 to address current and emerging issues such as tackling working conditions and discrimination of migrant workers in countries for example in Turkey.
As part of our participation in the UNGC working group we are still in dialogue with internal and external stakeholders to formulate our anti-slavery policy and will publish our statement in due course.
We have continued to work with the other retailers, brands and the ETI to improve working conditions in Leicester, UK which is now starting to address some of the issues which were highlighted such as excessive working hours, low wages and regular unauthorised sub-contractors.
In Bangladesh we employed a Regional Having introduced several policies in CSR manager to help improve our 2014 5 such as our human rights policy, We continue to work closely with the understanding of our entire supply animal welfare and forestry deforestation ACCORD in Bangladesh which was chain initially in South East Asia India, Policy, we will continue to develop and established to improve building standards, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Sri Lanka and make financial investments in technology fire and electrical safety and support those this appointment has helped to make and people to enable us to monitor and who participate in CSR related matters great progress during 2015 by working in report on improvements in the next see http: bangladeshaccord.
partnership with the likes of the ACCORD couple of years.
We are signatories of the ACCORD to improve building, fire and electrical Agreement together with over 180 safety within our entire Bangladesh global retailers who source from supply chain.
We were a founding member and this involves a five-year We have worked hard to strengthen our commitment to improve standards in supply base during the year, allowing us the Bangladesh garment industry.
to increase the number of products we All our factories are now being regularly source directly.
inspected by qualified engineers who we work collaboratively with to correct any issues or findings, with corrective plans publically disclosed.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 43 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT optional scope 3 emission sources The table and chart below illustrate our related to our operation to boost our GHG emissions across all our reporting Overview environmental impact assessment and areas, for the global Group from Our sustainability strategy and emissions reduction plan.
1 March 2015 to 29 February 2016 and environmental performance has the previous year.
become an integral element of our core business strategy.
As a responsible Total GHG tCO e multi-channel retailer, we have formally 2 tonnes of carbon committed to reduction targets and dioxide equivalent continually strive to exceed expectations 2014 2015 2015 2016 % of our customers, staff and investors.
Scope Source Previous year Current year change Group-wide sustainability responsibility Scope 1 Gas 1,601.8 1,477.1 -8% has been assigned to Ian Carr, director Diesel 572.4 532.7 -7% of logistics, who sits on the operational HFC 204.3 48.4 -76% board of J D Williams & Company Limited and who reports to the Chief Gas oil 56.6 72.9 29% Executive Officer and, through her, LPG 9.8 0.0 N A to the board of directors.
Company and pool car 137.8 73.6 -47% 1 Scope 2 Electricity 9,008.2 8,576.9 -5% Since 2007, the Group has been actively Total scope 1 and 2 11,590.9 10,781.8 -7% working alongside its environmental partners, Envantage Limited and Scope 3 Water 32.3 29.5 -8% Viridor Limited, to boost environmental Employee commuting 2,137.0 1,713.9 -20% performance and increase Group-wide Business travel environmental awareness and air, road and rail 1,885.2 1,604.8 -15% accountability.
Ongoing investment Waste 619.3 287.3 -54% into energy, carbon, waste and water minimisation initiatives has led to Well to tank all 1,832.6 1,712.4 -7% a reduction in our carbon emissions Total 18,099.7 16,130.7 -11% and water footprint profiles.
Outside scopes-Biogenic element-Diesel 14.8 17.8 20% Green House Gas GHG 1.
E missions associated with electricity usage at the Bangladesh office are reported in CO rather than CO e. This is 2 2 emissions profile because overseas emissions factors are only available on a CO basis.
The electricity kWh for Bangladesh accounts 2 for 1.3 % of the total Group electricity consumption.
Our Green House Gas GHG emissions inventory is calculated for the global Group under the operational control approach, in accordance with the GHG N BROWN GROUP PLC EMISSIONS PROFILE 2015 2016 Protocol and GHG emissions factors tCO e 2 published by DECC.
The inventory is independently calculated by our carbon 53% Electricity consultants partner Envantage Ltd. 11% Employee commuting Well to tank all 11% Under GHG reporting guidelines, 10% Business travel air, road and rail scope 1 and 2 emissions are the key 9% Gas mandatory areas to report, illustrating 3% Diesel the environmental impact of the Group Waste 2% for activities where we have direct control Gas oil 0% i. e. operation of our sites and vehicles.
Company and pool car 0% As a responsible retailer we have also HFCs 0% taken steps to quantify as many extra Water 0% Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 N Brown Group plc 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Emissions Change from previous year EMISSIONS CHANGE FROM PREVIOUS YEAR tCO e 2 We have reduced our Group GHG emissions by a significant 11% compared to the previous reporting period.
A breakdown of the reduction in emissions by source is shown in the chart opposite.
100 Relative performance using 0 intensity ratios 16 -3 3 -10 -40 As a growing organisation, evaluation -64 -100 of scope 1 and 2 emissions performance -122 -125 using intensity ratios allows a more -156 -200 meaningful comparison to be made between inventory periods.
The table -280 -300 below shows the scope 1 and 2 GHG -332 emissions by GHG emissions in relation -400 -423 -431 to both Group turnover million and million items dispatched.
GHG emissions relating to Scope 1 and 2 sources have decreased considerably in terms of relative performance against both 2014 2015 2015 2016 Intensity ratios Previous year Current year % Change turnover and items dispatched, as Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions tCO e 11.0 % shown in the table and charts opposite.
2 Group turnover million 13.9 12.4 decrease Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions tCO e 11.2 % 2 million items dispatched 324.2 287.8 decrease EMISSIONS AGAINST TURNOVER EMISSIONS AGAINST ITEMS SHIPPED PREVIOUS YEAR AND CURRENT YEAR PREVIOUS YEAR AND CURRENT YEAR tCO e million turnover tCO e million items 2 2 324.2 13.9 287.8 12.4 2015 2016 2015 2016 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 45 Gas Diesel HFCs Gas oil LPG Company and pool car Electricity Water Employee commuting Business travel air, road and rail Waste Well to tank all Outside scopes-Biogenic element-Diesel CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Green electricity purchase New for 2016 - market based Therefore the 2014 to 2015 disclosures As well as making efforts to reduce have been used for this years calculation greenhouse gas reporting emissions by reducing energy and are likely to change depending Overview consumption, the Group are also on how each supplier sourced their In January 2015, the Greenhouse Gas committed to reducing emissions by electricity during this years reporting Protocol updated their Scope 2 reporting purchasing energy from greener period.
guidelines on how organisations shall technologies and sources.
During the report their emissions relating to last inventory period green electricity Certain suppliers are unable to provide purchased electricity, heat and steam.
accounted for 82% of our total electricity the exact fuel mix for the different Companies shall now report two sets of profile.
In addition to purchasing green contracts and supplies that they provide Scope 2 emissions: one using a location electricity we have been generating our and tend to only provide a general fuel based method and another using a own green energy via a solar PV plant at mix disclosure.
This is a concern as market based method.
This is termed our main distribution centre since March the Group purchase over 80% of their as dual reporting.
This is in addition to solar power electricity through a green contract generation which has been used at our but are unable to take full credit for The location based method reflects the Devon Mill distribution centre since this in their market based emissions average emissions intensity of grids on January 2014. quantification due to the supplier which energy consumption occurs: the not being able to define the renewable same way that electricity emissions have When calculating emissions using the fuel mix for this contract.
The market grid average GHG factors, emissions based method reflects the emissions for arising from electricity consumption Dual reporting for N Brown Group the energy that a company is purchasing, account for over half of the total Group To account for the uncertainty in fuel as supplies under different contracts emissions.
However, the actual emissions mixes, an adjusted market based emit more or less greenhouse gases associated with the green energy method has been calculated to reflect depending on the energy source or supplies are lower, as explained below.
the expected emissions from the green technology used.
As the market based supplies.
A summary of emissions method has only recently been resulting from all three approaches introduced there are some areas of is detailed below.
The market based concern or uncertainty as outlined below.
emissions factors are only available in CO, not CO equivalent, therefore 2 2 Uncertainties and concerns the location based greenhouse gases The fuel mix disclosures provided by have been reported as CO to show 2 suppliers are released after the event a like-for-like comparison.
For example, the disclosures for April 2015 - March 2016 are not GREEN ELECTRICITY PROFILE 2015 2016 available until the summer of 2016.
% 18% Total GHG tCO e 2 % 2014 2015 2015 2016 change from Scope Approach Source Previous year Current year previous year 82% Scope 2 Location based Electricity 9,008 8,577 - 4.8 % Market based Electricity 7,462 7,460 0.0 % Green Electricity Brown Electricity Market based-adjusted Electricity 1,644 1,406 -14.5 % N Brown Group plc 46 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report EMISSIONS LOCATION BASED VS MARKET BASED Gas oil: Fuel is used in stand by tCO 2 generators and onsite transport forklifts etc.. Data for onsite 9,008 8,577 transport is calculated using actual 7,462 7,460 fuel usage from invoices.
This year a full set of invoices was not possible to obtain so data was taken from internal records of gas oil deliveries.
Generator fuel usage has been 1,644 1,406 estimated using generator fuel demand per hour and activation Location based Market based Market based adjusted information.
2014 2015 2015 2016 Diesel: Data is calculated based on actual fuel consumption from invoices.
Company car: Data is primarily calculated for the Group using Mandatory GHG reporting notes Revised gas kWh consumption data logged in our Global Expense This data is disclosed is in conformance at Waterside Hadfield: Since the system which records distance the Companies Act 2006 Strategic 2014 2015 emissions figures were travelled, and vehicle information Report and Directors Report reported, issues with the two gas for each business travel expense Regulations 2013.
GHG emissions meters at the Waterside Hadfield site claimed.
The Global Expense system disclosed under the required reporting were identified.
The consumption was replaced with a Concur system categories fall within the Groups relating to these meters was re-billed part-way through the reporting period consolidated financial statement.
resulting in a lower kWh than was therefore data has been taken from Scope 1 and 2 emissions have been previously reported.
both systems for the relevant periods.
calculated on a global scale where the Any company cars not logged on this Group have operation control using the Noted change in emissions historically system have been estimated based GHG protocol.
The quantified emissions Removal of call centre emissions: on milometer readings.
are for the reporting year 1 March 2015 Operations carried out at the call HFC: Refrigeration emissions to 29 February 2016. centre were outsourced from 1 have been calculated from the January 2015 onwards.
All emissions F-Gas register for applicable GHG emissions factors published by associated with Martin House have plant where provided.
This year, DECC for 2015 have been used to been removed from the GHG confirmation of leakages from calculated GHG emissions.
inventory base year and all historical units falling under F-Gas regulation reporting years, in line with reat Griffin House and Skyland have Noted change in emissions for 2014-2015 baselining guidance.
not been provided, therefore Data accuracy: Some data for the leakages have been estimated using 2014-2015 inventory has been updated Data records DECC leakage tables.
Emissions for based on actual data or more accurate Natural Gas and electricity: Data is plant not affected by this regulation data for some sources.
primarily calculated based on actual smaller systems have been calculated Update in DECC emissions factors: metered consumption from invoices using data provided by full service Emissions from the previous published or meter readings.
Where service records were report for the period 2014 - 2015 have metered data is not available as energy not available for a very small number been recalculated with the newly is billed as part of a landlord service of shops refrigeration losses have published factors for 2015, affecting charge, energy consumption has been estimated using DECC leakage the months of January and February been estimated using floor areas and tables.
For a very small number of 2015 2015 factors were not available published benchmarks.
Some data has shops, details of the systems were at time of publish.
This has resulted in been estimated where quarterly bills not known and therefore estimation a slight change in emissions reported.
have not yet been published.
of emissions has not been possible.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 47
