TRANSFORMATIONAL PROGRESS Operating team Digitalised our The past two years has seen an people processes almost entirely new top team at We are a digital-first retailer, N Brown.
Our talented operating and this influences everything board are all digital natives, experts we do.
So, this year, we moved in their fields, and are enthused our people processes online and excited about our journey.
from recruitment to recognition, development to keeping our More detail p23 colleagues up to date.
New in-house design team Having previously relied on third parties, weve invested in an in-house team of designers, to ensure that we are always on-trend and providing our customers with clothes which fit, flatter and make them look and feel amazing.
More detail p22 N Brown Group plc 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Investing in new talent whilst retaining our broad knowledge and experience to successfully transform key areas of our business.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 5 TRANSFORMATIONAL PROGRESS CONTINUED Digital-first marketing Redefining our buying Whilst paper-based marketing and merchandising remains important for us, well processes over half our business now In order to ensure constant comes online so this is our newness for our customers and primary focus.
Our digital give us far more trading flexibility marketing team are best in class, in-season.
We now operate as with capabilities including data a truly online retailer, giving us analytics, personalisation and far more agility and control.
N Brown Group plc 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Looking at new ways of working to match our digital-first approach and enable us to capture growth opportunities.
Bangladesh sourcing office We opened our first in-country sourcing office in Autumn 2015, allowing us to work far closer with our suppliers in the country, and reduce our reliance on costly third-party agencies.
Outsourced creative production This has enabled us to operate as a digital-first retailer, photographing and uploading new products to our websites as soon as they come in using our new, dedicated photo studios.
Catalogue production has also been modernised and made significantly more efficient.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 7 TRANSFORMATIONAL PROGRESS CONTINUED Investing in...
Global web platform Planning systems We are investing in a new core We are significantly upgrading website transaction engine, fixing the systems used by our product legacy issues which significantly teams, providing more enhanced slow our speed to market.
data for merchandising decisions This new system will allow us and improving our supply chain to trade with far more agility efficiency.
going forwards, and give us global ship anywhere capability.
N Brown Group plc 8 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report More agility going forward, with Fit 4 the Future progressing well: early releases are now live and the main roll-out begins later this year.
New financial services system Modernising our credit proposition and allowing us to operate in a far more flexible, customer relevant way.
We will be able to charge variable APRs and make lending decisions tailored to individual customers and products.
More detail p35 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 9
