49 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Operational risks vulnerabilities they simulate cyber-attacks.
When we learn of Security and resilience potential attack routes, or get intelligence about attacks on similar Resilient IT systems, networks and associated infrastructure are organisations, we treat the information proactively and resolve it essential to our commercial success.
There are a lot of different with the same speed and rigour as a real attack.
hazards that could significantly interrupt our services.
Weve reviewed the resilience and disaster recovery capability of These include the evolving threat of cyber-attack, as hackers our critical systems, main data centres and our most important increasingly see Internet Service Providers ISPs as attractive exchanges.
This has helped us make judgements on where to targets.
Others include component failure, physical attack, copper invest in better and stronger systems and infrastructure.
Were also cable or equipment theft, fire, explosion, flooding and extreme continuing to develop cross-site recovery for our critical systems weather, power failure, overheating or extreme cold, problems where this didnt previously exist.
There are also several major encountered during upgrades and major changes, and suppliers change programmes underway to intensify IT and network controls failing to meet their obligations.
to meet new levels of risk.
Potential impact How were mitigating the risks A malicious cyber-attack or breach of security could mean our data We use encryption to prevent unauthorised access to data is lost, corrupted, disclosed or ransomed, or that our services are travelling over our networks, or through direct access to computers interrupted.
We might have to pay fines, contract penalties and and removable storage devices.
compensation, and have to operate under sanctions or temporary arrangements while we recover and put things right.
But encryption alone cant eliminate this risk.
People can be tricked into downloading malware or giving away information by phone or A big interruption to our services, from cyber-attack or otherwise, email.
So we also implement extra layers of access control, block as could mean immediate financial losses from fraud and theft: many malicious emails as we can, and run awareness campaigns for contract cancellations: lost revenue from not being able to process customers and employees to make sure they stay vigilant.
orders and invoices: contractual penalties: lost productivity and unplanned costs to restore and improve our security: prosecution We ask suppliers for evidence of compliance with our security and fines.
Ultimately individuals welfare could be put at risk policies.
We also run an audit programme to test this.
We simulate where we werent able to provide services or personal data was cyber-attacks to test how well protected our websites, networks misappropriated.
Our revenues, new business and cash flow could suffer, and A control framework helps us prevent service interruptions, restoring our reputation and re-building our market share might supported by tried and tested recovery capabilities.
Proactive take an extended period of time.
problem management helps us address the root causes of common incidents.
We continue to invest in resilience and recovery capabilities for Link to strategy and business model critical IT systems, as well as addressing vulnerabilities in our Deliver superior customer service Trend: physical estate as we become aware of them.
We also have a rolling programme of major incident simulations to test and refine our procedures for crises.
Whats changed over the last year?
By replacing equipment approaching the end of its service Weve invested in scanning and monitoring tools and automated life, were moving more of our legacy estate to new, more resilient cyber defences.
But the rate of major cyber-related incidents facilities.
Weve also made sure that we have  a manual response keeps rising.
Weve increased the size distributed locations that support cross-site recovery.
of our Cyber Defence Operations team accordingly.
