People and practices 19 Strategic Report At BTG we value the contribution of every employee We invest in developing people, capabilities, and systems to meet the needs of our growing business in a sustainable and responsible way.
These investments are designed to help us deliver long-term value: keeping us efficient, agile and well positioned to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise.
Additional information about BTGs commitment to responsible social, environmental, and governance practices is available on the Responsibility section of our website www.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 20 People and practices continued Strategic Report 1 benchmarks.
Together these tools aim to BTG employees 2015 16 2014 15 improve operational oversight and the Management 99 102 overall productivity of our R&D.
Research and production 673 518 Sales, administration and business support 410 366 Respecting diversity 1,182 986 Our employees come from a variety of 1 Average during the year.
They are valued for their varied perspectives and judged solely by their Our people with better tools to manage talent abilities, behaviour, performance and development.
In addition we have piloted Every employee working at BTG potential.
As an Equal Opportunity a one-year graduate scheme consisting of contributes to and shares in our success.
Employer, we consider employees and three-month rotations in key areas of the We look to attract and retain people who applicants for employment without regard business followed by a twelve-month share our values and exhibit the to race, colour, religion, sex, national origin, placement in a function mutually behaviours that our future success or protected veteran status and we will not depends on.
As the Group grows, selected by the graduate and BTG.
discriminate on the basis of disability.
organically and through acquisition, we invest time, attention and resources in Organisational change Supporting our maintaining an organisational culture This year our R&D function put in place that we call our DNA.
new structures, processes, and community behaviours to align BTGs portfolio of Each year employees at each of our major Continuous learning innovation projects to our business sites choose corporate charities that priorities.
This is to ensure that projects Our Learning & Development agenda is support one of the diseases or conditions are managed within resource and budget designed to support our growth strategy.
relevant to BTG, or that benefit the local constraints and delivered on time.
BTG-specific content on topics such as communities where we operate.
During critical thinking help reinforce our DNA this fiscal year we donated 27,000 A new Portfolio Review Board provides and preferred ways of working.
This year 2014 15: 41,000 to charitable causes.
portfolio-wide oversight, helping to we started delivering our Management allocate budget and resource to the most A list of the charities which we supported Development Programme in-house in during the financial year can be found on promising projects at pre-defined order to ensure the content and our website.
In the coming year, a new facilitation meets BTGs specific needs.
Enterprise Project Management system will provide better visibility of project An increasing percentage of employees Health and safety development plans, bringing more rigour took advantage of our Learning & Management regularly reviews health and Development offerings this year.
We to project timelines and improving safety metrics to ensure we are providing a resource and capacity planning.
We have invested in new ways of delivering this safe work environment for our employees.
also selected a Clinical Trial Management content virtually to our increasingly Through a health and safety culture System that, once implemented, will geographically dispersed workforce.
programme and increased manager focus, standardise tracking and reporting of our Participation in our virtual offerings we halved our rate of lost time accidents clinical trials and provide metrics of exceeded target levels and are now our as compared to the previous year, with performance against targets and industry most popular delivery option.
an increasing number of employees.
Our new mentoring programme pairs high potential employees with senior leaders from across the business.
In its first year Data on gender 100% of participants surveyed said they Number of females who are: 2015 16 2014 15 would participate again and 81% said the program met or exceeded their Employees 584 49% 522 47% expectations.
In 2016 we also began Senior Managers 73 36% 78 41% enrolling senior leaders in the UK in Leadership Team Members 3 25% 3 23% Challenge24, an exclusive leadership Board Directors 2 25% 2 25% programme that will introduce them to similarly bright and motivated people from Total lost time from accidents and illnesses days per 100,000 hours worked other sectors to broaden their perspectives and encourage collaborative working.
2015 16 0.34 To be sure we have the people and 2014 15 0.69 capabilities needed as the business Change -50% grows, we established a new succession Includes all accidents and illnesses where one or more days are lost.
This figure includes accidents where people have planning process that provides leaders returned to work and were given alternative duties as they were not able to fulfil their normal roles.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Integrity and ethics Protecting human rights Product quality 21 Every BTG employee is trained in our Code BTG has publicly committed to We continually enhance the systems, Strategic of Conduct annually to help ensure our respecting international standards processes, and practices that ensure Report business operates in accordance with our such as the United Nations Universal the quality of the products we produce.
values and meets the requirements of Declaration of Human Rights.
In This year we began a programme of our highly regulated industry.
The latest anticipation of the UK Modern Slavery mock inspections at each production site version of our full Code of Conduct is Act coming into effect, the Board designed to pressure test our systems available on our website.
Employees are approved a Human Rights Statement, and better understand areas of risk in expected to take personal responsibility available on our website, summarising advance of actual regulatory inspections for ethical and compliant behaviour and the internal standards and controls BTG and audits.
Our Quality Management to hold contractors and other third parties employs to ensure slavery and human System continues to evolve and now to the same standards.
This year the trafficking is not taking place in our includes a more efficient, risk-based compliance team exceeded our targets for business or our supply chain.
This approach to supply chain compliance.
due diligence reviews of our distributors.
statement also satisfies the In the coming year, this system will requirements of the US California expand to include the acquired EKOS and Management relies on data to ensure the Transparency in Supply Chains Act.
We also plan to carry effectiveness of our compliance control year we augmented the training provided out a data integrity review to ensure we framework, reviewing business unit and to those in our quality function who audit have adequate equipment, capabilities group level dashboards.
This year we have our suppliers in order to help them detect and experience in this area of increasing been encouraged by a lower number of practices that could potentially indicate regulatory interest.
incidents but also by levels of employee human trafficking or slavery.
incident reporting that suggest a culture Access and pricing of open and honest communication.
Environmental impact BTG is thoughtful in how it establishes Our anti-bribery and corruption ABAC This year our environmental impact the price of its products.
We ensure policy prohibits BTG employees, and figures include, for the first time, our that a products price is proportional those acting on their behalf, from offering PneumRx location in California and the to its value from the points of view of anything of value as a bribe or expansion of our Camberley facility.
healthcare professionals, patients inducement to others to make decisions The impact of our increasing footprint and payers, and allows us to continue that favour BTGs interests.
These policies and production volumes have been to invest in developing new medical are designed to promote compliance with offset by energy saving projects such products.
Where appropriate, BTG the UK Bribery Act, the US Foreign as the installation of solar panels in strives to meet the access needs of Corrupt Practices Act FCPA, and other Australia, upgrading fume cupboards in patients.
For example, we have created local law equivalents.
This year the our labs in Farnham, and more energy a comprehensive Patient Assistance majority of our third party distributors efficient HVAC and lighting in our clean programme for Vistogard, our newest were trained on our ABAC policies.
These efforts have acute care product, ensuring this To ensure the transparency of our contributed to a year-on-year decrease life-saving medicine is available to relationship with healthcare providers, in CO emissions and electricity usage patients regardless of insurance status, 2 BTG collects, tracks, and reports per production unit and per employee.
where financial cost may be a barrier payments to healthcare professionals The addition of PneumRx has increased to access.
and organisations in accordance with the our use of water and production of waste.
US Physician Payment Sunshine Act.
Environmental Impact Data 2015 16 2014 15 % Change 15 Total CO equivalent generated tonnes 6,349 6,145 3 2 1-5 CO equivalent generated tonnes scope 1 1,627 1,367 19 2 1-5 CO equivalent generated tonnes scope 2 4,722 4,779 -1 2 1-5 Total production units 270,436 234,939 15 1-5 Total Kg CO generated per production unit 23 26 -10 2 1-5, 8 Total employees 1,370 1,121 22 1-5, 8 Total Kg CO generated per employee 4,634 5,481 -15 2 1-5 Total electricity consumed MWh 8,155 8,251 -1 1-5 Total electricity consumed per production unit 0.0302 0.0351 -14 6 Total waste from our production and research sites tonnes 575 573 0 6 Waste recycled 207 258 -20 6 Hazardous waste incinerated or other treatment 133 114 17 6 Waste to landfill 235 200 18 3 7 Total water consumed production and research sites m 37,205 34,123 9 Notes 1 GHG protocol used for data.
Scope 3 emissions have not been calculated.
2 Covers 100% of BTG controlled operations, third-party manufacturing has not been included in either the carbon dioxide generated or the intensity figures.
3 Data from operational sites with more than 20 employees based on energy bills.
4 Emissions from field based and smaller offices estimated based on average US consumption as this is where majority are based, 3% of data is estimated.
5 Conversion factors used: Defra DECC 2015 and government websites.
6 Waste from our manufacturing and research sites in Australia, USA and UK.
7 Water consumption measured at our production sites in Australia, USA and UK.
8 Employee number includes all employees, plus contractors and temporary workers directly supervised by BTG employees.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
