35 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information The scale and reach of our global multi-protocol label switching We have access to over 18,500 basestation sites including those MPLS network is a key competitive differentiator.
This single via the MBNL joint operation between EE and Hutchison 3G UK IP-based network lets our lines of business launch products and see page 237. services quickly and cost-effectively, without having to invest in Progress this year dedicated infrastructure for each product.
This year weve: To help our multinational customers connect their sites we installed new, more cost-effective MPLS network routers in all offer virtual private network VPN services, which are integral 106 core exchanges in the UK: to our Cloud of Clouds vision see page 60.
VPNs provide the installed new Ethernet switches into 169 exchanges, so even convenience and security of a private network, but over the public more businesses can have access to BT Ethernet services: internet.
We use our MPLS network together with a combination continued to roll out the latest technology, such as content of owned and leased fibre connections to connect our points of caching so we can use network capacity better and speed up presence PoPs around the world.
For the final connection into the delivery of TV and internet content: and the customers premises, we either use our own circuits, or rent integrated the technology to allow BT Global Services to offer a connections from telecoms operators in that country.
We also software-defined WAN service.
This lets enterprise customers use have an extensive satellite network which provides customers different types of network together, and provide various services with connectivity around the world, including remote locations.
to their users seamlessly, as if over just one network.
In-country networks Service platforms We have extensive networks in the UK, as well as in Germany, We run a number of service platforms that combine our network Italy, the Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland and Spain.
They underpin many of the key products we offer.
Our UK fixed-line network is one of our most valuable assets and One such platform is BT Conferencing, which provides audio and our investment in fibre broadband is key to delivering modern, video conferencing services to customers around the world.
Our superfast services to UK consumers.
To meet the demand from audio conferencing service is called BT MeetMe and is available businesses, were continuing to expand the availability of Ethernet.
with Dolby Voice for higher quality sound and a better user And when our customers are away from their home or office, they experience.
can use one of more than 5.6m BT Wi-fi hotspots.
Our BT TV platform supports a growing number of customers Our research shows that over the last five years, at peak times, and were increasing the range of services it delivers.
We designed, data traffic in the core network has grown by around 50% a developed and tested the new BT Ultra HD set-top box.
We year, and we expect growth to continue at a similar rate.
So were also launched our BT Sport app.
It provides customers with making sure that our core and access networks can cope with functionality like goal replays, different camera angles and extra that demand.
facts all to enhance the viewing experience.
IT systems Core network peak-time trac Year ended 31 March Our IT systems let us manage our processes, handle customer information and deliver our products and services.
Theyre critical Gbps 25,000 to serving our customers and running our business.
For example, our customer management systems hold customer 20,000 and billing information.
They include the technology that works with our online customer portals.
And the technology used when 15,000 customers call a contact centre.
10,000 Progress this year This year weve: 5,000 delivered an integrated set of applications that we call 0 Consumer.
Its part of our focus on broadening and 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017e 2018e 2019e 2020e deepening our customer relationships.
It means weve a much easier way for our customers and contact centre agents to manage customer accounts, and track orders and fault As a result of buying EE, we now own the UKs largest mobile management.
It has resulted in around 10,000 fewer calls network.
Well continue to invest in its coverage and capability, to to our contact centres each week: consolidate its position as the biggest and fastest in the UK.
At the introduced View My Engineer to help reduce missed end of March 2016 outdoor coverage of the UK population was: appointments.
A customer can use it to check details of over 99% for 2G: scheduled engineer visits.
It provides engineer contact details, over 98% for 3G: and indicates when the engineer is travelling to the appointment, over 96% for 4G.
when the work has been started and when the work has been done: and We want to expand 4G geographic coverage.
This stands at 60% continued to innovate in our data centres improving their today, and we plan to get this to 95% by the end of 2020 with performance and removing older server technology.
For example, an ambition to go even further.
this year we started to roll out storage virtualisation which helps Between BT and EE, we have a combined 120MHz of paired us store data more efficiently.
This means were able to offer speeds of up to 90Mbps in areas served by our 4G network.
36 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Properties Research We have around 7,000 properties in the UK and 1,730 across the rest of the world.
The number of properties in the UK is higher and development than the 6,350 we had last year, mainly reflecting our acquisition of EE in January 2016.
Through this, weve added 635 properties, We invest in research and development R&D as we of which around 560 are EE shops.
There are also around 40 believe commercial success is ever more dependent former shops EE is in the process of disposing of.
Our long history of innovation combines scientific breakthrough, practical engineering and commercial We lease the majority of our UK properties from Telereal Trillium, purpose.
We call this purposeful innovation.
part of the William Pears group.
We signed a sale and leaseback arrangement with them in 2001.
88% of our UK properties Our innovation heritage are operational sites housing fixed and mobile telecoms and Our origins can be traced back to an entrepreneurial fusion of broadband equipment.
The rest are retail outlets, offices, contact business and innovation.
In 1837 Sir William Fothergill Cooke centres, depots and data centres.
We also have our BT Sport TV a businessman and Sir Charles Wheatstone an academic filed studios in London.
a patent for the worlds first practical electric telegraph.
This led In the UK, weve been consolidating and disposing of surplus office to the founding of the Electric Telegraph Company in 1846, space for several years and were working on further opportunities the seed company that eventually led to the formation of BT.
to streamline our real estate.
We continue to reduce the size of Weve pioneered many of the technologies that we and customers the operational estate as new fibre-based technologies mean we now rely on.
For example, in 1926 we established the worlds first can dispose of buildings and make energy savings.
This year we two-way, trans-Atlantic conversation by radio telephone, from brought our property management activities back into BT from our wireless station near Rugby.
And in 1943 Tommy Flowers, Telereal Trillium.
This will reduce costs by simplifying how we working in the telecoms division of the GPO, developed the worlds manage our UK property portfolio.
first programmable electronic computer, Colossus.
In 1968, we Outside the UK, our offices in Gurgaon, Kolkata and Bengaluru in installed the worlds first digital telephone exchange.
We laid the India are now home to our Central Business Services organisation.
worlds first, purpose-designed optical fibre submarine cable in This provides support to our lines of business.
As part of our Loch Fyne in 1980.
And in 1984, we installed the worlds first strategy of investing in high-growth regions, weve expanded our 140Mbps commercial single-mode optical fibre link.
Our global offices in Budapest and Debrecen in Hungary so we can support IP Exchange platform GIPX was the result of one of our research our global customers more effectively and efficiently.
And more recently, weve led the industry in setting out our vision for widescale deployment of ultrafast broadband.
We sponsor the Information Age gallery at the Science Museum BT property portfolio UK where many of our historical innovations can be seen, including parts from Colossus.
275 22 Oces and depots Data centres This year we invested around 470m 2014 15: around 500m in research and development.
Over the years weve been one of the largest investors in R&D of any company in the UK, and globally in b the telecoms sector.
6,052 Operational sites Weve continued to grow the number of inventions we produce from our research activities.
In 2015 16 we filed patent applications for 97 inventions 2014 15: 93.
Number of new invention lings Year ended 31 March 100 a EE property portfolio UK 90 22 51 Oces Operational sites 80 70 562 Retail outlets 60 50 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 We routinely seek patent protection in different countries, and at 31 March 2016 had a worldwide portfolio of around 4,700 patents and applications.
b Comparison based on total R&D spend over 2005 6 to 2014 15.
Source: EU Industrial R&D a Excludes leased cell sites.
html 65 69 89 93 97 37 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Open innovation Brand and reputation We bring together expertise and resources both our own and third-party at our eight global development centres.
Adastral We own three strong brands: BT, EE and Plusnet.
Park in the UK is our technology headquarters.
Its an innovation These are at the heart of our efforts to broaden and campus which we share with around 70 high-tech companies, and deepen our customer relationships.
The experience a workplace for around 3,700 people.
This year we continued to our customers have is shaped not just by the service grow our development centres in Kuala Lumpur and Bengaluru.
our front-line teams provide, but by everything we do: Were keen to work with people outside BT.
We have extensive, from the products and propositions we design, to the long-standing, joint-research programmes with Cambridge way we communicate with customers.
University UK, Massachusetts Institute of Technology US, Tsinghua University China, Khalifa University UAE and over 30 other universities globally.
Global innovation scouting Our research teams work with customers and other companies in the US, Asia, Europe and the Middle East.
And weve had people The BT brand continues to go from strength to strength.
Brand located at hotbeds of innovation such as Silicon Valley and Cambridge, Finance has valued it at $18.4bn, 14% more than a year ago.
According to their analysis, BT is the 60th most valuable brand These teams help us track the latest global developments in new in the world and the third most valuable brand in the UK.
technologies, business propositions and market trends.
Weve been finding new ways to support start-ups in Adastral Park and in Londons Tech City.
In March 2015, we re-entered the UK consumer mobile market, And through our BT Infinity Lab programme we partner with entrepeneurs under the BT brand.
In January 2016 we took ownership of the to meet and co-innovate with start-ups from around the world.
Since its launch in 2012, the EE brand has achieved impressive results in terms of awareness and positive associations.
Our people help us innovate.
This year our internal New Ideas The Plusnet brand continues to offer a distinctive position of Scheme had more than 1,700 submissions.
Its helping us provide brilliant service at a great price.
Well continue to run all three a better service to our customers.
of our brands in the UK consumer market, offering products that meet different customer needs.
We run innovation showcases where business customers can discuss applications and solutions with our experts, and work We continue to innovate for our customers, further building the with them on solving problems.
strength and breadth of our brands.
For example: Under our communications programme, Ingenious, were sharing In August, we added to our BT Sport offering, showing exclusive BTs innovation story with thought-leaders, governments and UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League games.
Examples of our research activities this year include: We enhanced this with the launch of Europes first live Ultra HD sports TV channel.
G. fast speed improvements We also embarked on a multi-year strategic technology Weve been driving the standards for a new transmission system partnership with the Williams Martini Racing Formula One team.
at the heart of our ultrafast broadband vision.
This means we Were providing the team with innovative communications should be able to deploy ultrafast broadband far more quickly technology to help improve car performance with instant access than previously thought possible.
Our collaboration is already helping Williams XG-FAST trial to work better connecting race tracks around the world with Working with Bell Labs, weve demonstrated speeds of its headquarters in Oxfordshire.
5.6Gbps over 35 metres of copper cable in lab conditions.
This proves its possible to achieve very high broadband speeds Using partnerships to raise awareness over existing infrastructure.
Partnerships continue to play an important role in how we build our reputation and show our support for good causes.
For example Long-reach VDSL we: Weve shown in the lab that we can take a 2km long copper line currently achieving 9Mbps with standard VDSL, and increase launched our BT Sport Infinity Lab competition to find start-ups this to 24Mbps and beyond.
and entrepreneurs with innovative digital media and production solutions: Future-proofing exchange operations agreed multi-year sponsorship of the Institution of Engineering Weve been improving the tools that our exchange-based and Technologys new Diamond Jubilee Scholarship Programme: engineering teams use for planning their work.
We use have continued to develop our Connecting Africa programme artificial intelligence and mathematical modelling to better see page 38 : and forecast, plan and schedule where people and equipment continued to support good causes including Children will be needed.
in Need in November 2015 and Sport Relief in March 2016 Quantum communications see page 34.
Were also leading the world in demonstrating how quantum physics and optical engineering are on the cusp of providing much improved security for optical fibre systems.
Weve shown how a 200Gbps stream of encrypted data can be transmitted on the same 100km network link as a quantum encryption key.
This work could offer enhanced security for the data networks of the future.
