47 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Strategic and financial risks How were mitigating the risks Growth in a competitive market We stick to our strategy, which means: Our markets are characterised by: constant and rapid change: broadening and deepening our customer relationships: strong and new competition: delivering superior customer service: falling prices and in some markets falling revenues: transforming our costs: and technology changes: investing for growth.
market and product convergence: If we do that, well grow our revenue profitably and sustainably.
customers moving between providers: and regulation to promote competition and cut wholesale prices.
Weve been investing in areas like fibre, TV and content, voice and mobility, UK business markets, and our global corporate customers.
Potential impact Our cost transformation programmes are still delivering savings.
We If we dont grow our revenue profitably and sustainably, our cash can also seek changes in regulation to make things fairer so we flows could be impacted.
This could limit our ability to invest in the can compete harder in neighbouring markets, which will be better business or pay dividends.
Communications industry regulation Link to strategy and business model Regulation affects a lot of what we do.
Invest for growth Trend: In the UK, after market reviews, Ofcom can make us provide wholesale services on specified terms.
Ofcom reviews the shape and size of that regulation every three years and can include Whats changed over the last year?
controls on the price we charge for regulated products.
It can Last year we did some big things as part of our growth strategy.
investigate and enforce any regulatory rules in place and impose We: fines on us if we dont comply.
acquired EE: Ofcom also has powers to regulate the terms on which we won FA Premier League rights for the second time: get supplied with certain services for instance, mobile call launched our BT Sport Europe channel: and termination and wholesale access to certain pay-TV channels.
deployed more of our fibre broadband network.
Thiscan increase our costs and affects the scope of services Our competitors are beginning to react.
CK Hutchison wants to we canprovide to customers.
Ofcom can also sort out disputes buy Telefnica Europe plc O2 UK.
Virgin Media is expanding its between us and other communications providers about the network.
Sky is being more aggressive in broadband.
Vodafone termson which services are supplied.
has entered the consumer home phone market.
The market is going to get more difficult not only because of the moves of our traditional competitors but also from players in neighbouring markets, as the dividing lines between industries keep blurring.
There are also regulatory risks that could threaten revenue growth particularly Ofcoms Business Connectivity Market Review and Wholesale Must Offer statement on pay-TV sports channels.
Trend indicates managements perception of how Pre-mitigation risk is P re-mitigation risk is Pre-mitigation risk the pre-mitigation risk has moved year on year increasing worsening is at a similar level lessening improving 48 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Outside the UK, general licensing requirements can make it tough We can appeal any regulatory decisions we think are wrong.
We for us to enter markets and compete.
Regulation will also define can also raise disputes or complain under the relevant regulatory the terms on which we can buy wholesale services from others.
framework or competition law where we have problems getting access to wholesale services like to wholesale pay-TV channels Potential impact or to other access networks.
Regulatory rules can affect our ability to compete effectively and earn revenues.
UK regulation has the biggest impact because we Pensions have to supply wholesale access products on regulated terms.
We have a large funding obligation to our main defined benefit pension scheme in the UK, the BT Pension Scheme BTPS or Around 5.7bn of our revenue 3.3bn of which is to downstream Scheme.
The BTPS faces similar risks to other defined benefit parts of BT is from supplying wholesale services to markets where schemes.
Things like future low investment returns, high inflation, Ofcom has found us to have significant market power.
Most of longer life expectancy and regulatory changes may all mean the these revenues are from products with regulated prices which we BTPS becomes more of a financial burden.
also have to cut each year by a defined, real-term percentage.
The regulatory controls usually last for three years and hold back Potential impact revenues during that time.
Our contributions to the BTPS are next due to be reviewed at the triennial funding valuation as at 30 June 2017.
If theres Where other CPs ask Ofcom to sort out disputes with us, theres an increase in the pension deficit, then we could have to increase a risk that Ofcom may set the prices we supply services at, and or deficit payments into the Scheme.
That might affect our share make us provide specific services.
In some circumstances, Ofcom price and credit rating.
If our credit rating fell in future, it would can adjust past prices and make us pay back CPs.
cost us more to borrow money and we might not get such flexible Regulation outside the UK can hit our revenue too.
Higher deficit payments could mean less money overly-restrictive licensing requirements or ineffective regulation available to invest, pay out as dividends or repay debt as it matures.
of access to other networks mean we might not be able to compete fairly.
Regulation can also define and control the terms of access to necessary regulated inputs, which raises our costs.
Link to strategy and business model Transform our costs Trend: Invest for growth Link to strategy and business model Deliver superior customer service Trend: Transform our costs Whats changed over the last year?
The last funding valuation of the BTPS, as at 30 June 2014, provided certainty over what we need to pay until the next Whats changed over the last year?
There has been a lot of regulatory activity in different areas.
Weve summarised this in the Regulation section on page 41.
Things like financial market conditions and expected future investment returns at the valuation date affect the funding Alongside the standard cycle of market reviews, in March 2015 position.
When considering expected future returns, different Ofcom announced an overarching strategic review of the digital factors are reviewed including yields or returns on government communications market.
In February 2016 it set out its initial bonds, which have dropped significantly since 30 June 2014.
Some of these could impact our operations, revenues a lower future investment return is assumed at the next valuation and costs if theyre adopted, for example: our liabilities would likely go up, which may lead to bigger deficit strengthening Openreachs functional separation: payments.
keeping structural separation on the table: EE operates the EE Pension Scheme EEPS which has a defined reducing regulation where its no longer required: and benefit section that was closed to future benefit accrual in 2014. relying on more end-to-end fibre-based competition.
The EEPS represents less than 2% of the groups retirement benefit obligation.
The latest funding valuation for the EEPS is How were mitigating the risks being performed as at 31 December 2015.
Our team of regulatory specialists include economists and accountants.
Together with legal experts and external advisers they How were mitigating the risks continuously check for potential disputes with other CPs and look The investment performance and liability experience are regularly for opportunities to change regulatory rules.
They talk continually reviewed by both us and the Trustee of the BTPS.
We also consider with regulators and other key influencers to understand the the associated risks and possible mitigations.
The assets of outlook and to make sure we make our positions clear.
the BTPS are well diversified, softening the impact of sharp drops We push for fair, proportionate, consistent and evidenced-based in the value of individual asset classes.
This helps us maintain regulation everywhere we do business.
Whenever there are market a reasonable balance of risk and return.
reviews, charge controls, and disputes or investigations we put Our financial strength and cash generation provide a level of forward evidence and analysis.
This helps us manage the risks protection against the impact of changes in the funding position of around decisions in any particular year.
The funding liabilities also include a buffer against future negative experience, as legislation requires that liabilities are calculated on a prudent basis.
