Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility improving safety... responsible sourcing 38 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate responsibility Business context Objective performance We are a focused and successful international distribution and outsourcing measures and group with operations across the Americas, structured monitoring Europe and Australasia.
By outsourcing the purchasing, consolidation and delivery of a of environmental, broad range of everyday items, our customers are able to focus on their core health & safety and businesses, achieve purchasing efficiencies and savings, free up working capital, other relevant metrics improve distribution capabilities, reduce carbon emissions and simplify their continues to be a focus internal administration.
in order to maintain We do not manufacture any products but as part of our business strategy we source and high levels of corporate procure branded, own brand and unbranded products globally.
These products are then responsibility within consolidated into our extensive global warehouse infrastructure, giving our our business.
customers a one-stop-shop solution to help reduce or eliminate the hidden costs of self-distribution and reduce their environmental impact.
We also offer several delivery options to ensure our customers receive their products when and where they are needed.
Sourcing We source everyday essential non-food items for a number of market sectors including foodservice, grocery, cleaning & hygiene, retail, safety and healthcare.
We liaise closely with our suppliers so that we are able to offer a full range of items which satisfy our customers demands, including offering alternative products which reduce their environmental impact and, as a result, their effect on climate change.
Our quality assurance quality control department based in Shanghai monitors and works with our key suppliers in Asia to ensure that appropriate corporate responsibility CR standards are in place.
Consolidation We have an extensive footprint of warehouse facilities across four continents.
Our broad range of products are therefore never far from where they need to be, Highlights allowing us to meet our customers needs Biennial employee survey completed quickly and easily, as well as reducing the with increased response rate number of deliveries to our customers, Whether in the warehouse or on the thereby cutting fuel usage, carbon Reduction targets for accident road, our commitment to safety is emissions and administration.
incidence and severity rates exceeded paramount.
We are all trained to use safe working practices and to make Analysis of social risk in worldwide sure we look after both ourselves supply chain completed and supplier and our colleagues.
management enhanced Ngoun Ngoeong Enhanced reported Scope 3 carbon North America emissions 39 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued suppliers: responsible sourcing, Distribution Materiality working as partners with our suppliers With our fleets of delivery vehicles and Understanding our material issues is to encourage high levels of CR and third party carriers, we are able to get important to enable us to manage our ethical trading initiatives: and products to our customers in a timely CR related impacts and stakeholder community: providing support by manner.
Our flexible delivery service allows relationships effectively.
It also helps to encouraging employee fundraising, our customers to increase the efficiency focus our resources, engagement and donating to charitable projects that and competitiveness of their operations.
reporting activities by addressing those benefit our employees and the issues most material to our business.
communities we work in and by donating As well as day-to-day operations, our Our current areas of focus are: stock and cash to charitable organisations business relies on developing strong and good causes.
and stable relationships with all of our business conduct code of ethics: training stakeholders.
We believe in managing our to ensure everyone understands our These issues are governed by a policy business with integrity, making sustainable, standards: framework, which is approved and long term decisions.
employees: engaging through clear monitored by the Board, with communication using a variety of implementation at a business area level.
channels, as well as provision of training Strategy, framework and materiality and development opportunities: We believe that positive actions with respect Business conduct code of ethics health & safety: improving safety in our to CR are not only desirable in their own warehouses and on our vehicles and The Groups business conduct code of right but are also of potential economic and ensuring that everyone takes personal ethics policy is disseminated to every commercial benefit to the Group.
A strong responsibility for this: employee as a guide to how employees are reputation for CR can provide business environment climate change: reducing expected to conduct themselves both from advantage and contribute to shareholder our and our customers impacts on the a corporate and individual perspective.
Conversely, perceived weakness in environment by reducing carbon policy clearly states that employees should CR may damage our reputation and cause emissions and promoting the reduction avoid conflicts of interest, provides guidance risks.
Bunzls good practice in sustainability of waste and providing innovative on the giving and receiving of gifts and has again been recognised by its FTSE4Good products to meet our customers needs, entertainment, prohibits illegal payments listing and CDP formerly Carbon Disclosure for example environmentally friendly as well as political donations and reinforces Project score.
Details of our strategy and packaging: the need to comply with laws, rules and framework in relation to CR can be found on regulations, protect confidential information the Bunzl plc website in the Responsibility and company assets and maintain high section at www.
standards in relationships with our customers and suppliers.
No material breaches of our business conduct code of ethics policy were recorded in 2016.
However, some minor incidents relating to employee conduct, such as theft or misuse of the Groups property, did occur and were dealt with during the normal course of business using Group human resources HR policies and procedures.
16 2015: 17 calls letters were received through our confidential whistleblowing process, Speak Up, none of which related to any issues of material concern.
All directors, managers, sales representatives and purchasing staff are required to undertake all of the CR e-learning modules which have been developed and enhanced since their original launch.
There are now a total of 11 modules which provide an overview of the business 449 conduct code of ethics policy and antiAsian supplier CR audits bribery issues such as facilitation payments and gifts and entertainment.
In addition, we refreshed the posters which are displayed in all our locations to advertise Speak Up.
31% Reduction in accident severity rate 40 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Key performance Performance What we said we What we did What we plan to indicators would do in 2016 do in 2017 2014 2015 2016 Employees Engaging with our employees with clear communications and the provision of training and development opportunities Employee turnover: 10.0% 10.3% 11.7% Monitor turnover We are seeing an increase in voluntary employee turnover Continue to monitor Voluntary and take action in all our business areas.
The movement in the levels of turnover and take action where necessary.
voluntary employee turnover tends to reflect changing where necessary.
Data for 2014 and economic conditions in the countries in which we operate 2015 has been rather than any intrinsic reasons related to the Group.
amended to reflect a modified method Our key employee and management populations of calculation.
Gender diversity: 10% 11% 10% Extend the training We continued to promote a womens development and Focus on career Women at senior network further and training network across the Group.
development and management level encourage wider succession plans.
Employee 74% 76% Prepare to We completed a further employee survey in 2016 covering Detailed actions plans engagement index undertake the all businesses within the Group.
The response rate was to be devised to address score employee 82%, an increase of 10% against the previous survey in any significant issues engagement survey 2014 and the engagement score was 76%, an increase raised.
Details of the outcome of the survey have been 2016 or during the distributed to the business area heads and the HR first half of 2017. community for discussion with management in the individual businesses.
Health & safety Improving safety in our warehouses and on our vehicles -19% -7% -7% Reduce the Group The accident incidence rate reduced by 7% and the Reduce the Group Reduction in accident incidence accident severity rate reduced by 31%.
The accident accident incidence rate accident incidence rate by 5% from incidence rate improved in UK & Ireland, Continental by 5% from 2016. rate % change 2015.
In North America the year-on-year significant improvement made in the previous year was Reduction in -3% -16% -31% Reduce the Group Reduce the Group partially offset by the performance of some recently accident severity accident severity accident severity rate acquired businesses.
The accident severity rate decreased rate % change rate by 5% from by 5% from 2016. in North America, Continental Europe and UK & Ireland, year-on-year 2015. where our focus on behavioural safety and assisted return to work programmes appears to be improving our Establish performance.
Although Latin America saw an increase in programmes in each severity rate, their performance compares favourably with business area to other business areas.
Australasias incidence and severity identify behaviours rates have both increased.
While their incidence rate is that promote safety only slightly above the Group average, their severity rate as a value.
was adversely affected by two manual handling accidents accounting for 68% of their days lost.
We continue to enhance and extend our Safety Observations Programmes.
North America launched a Fleet Safety Call Drive for World Class and branch celebrations are held on sites with a history of zero accidents.
In UK & Ireland Fleet Elite drivers are recognised based on a history of good safe driving scores.
41 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Key performance Performance What we said we What we did What we plan to indicators would do in 2016 do in 2017 2014 2015 2016 Environment climate change Reducing our impact on the environment by reducing carbon emissions Carbon emissions: 15.7 14.7 12.6 Reduce emissions The 2016 figure represents a 38% reduction in emissions Reduce emissions by 1% Scope 1 Tonnes of by 29% against 2010 versus our 2010 baseline data decrease of 15% from against 2016.
Our emissions are represented as an index against 2 This reduction target revenue reduce 3% from revenue and in 2016 the reduction in the index was excludes any foreign 2015. affected by the weakening of sterling against the major exchange translation currencies in the last quarter of the CR reporting year.
effect on revenue We estimate that this exchange rate effect increased numbers the reduction by c. 4%.
Fuel for transportation remains our highest source of CO e emissions contributing c. 85% of Scope 1 and 62% of 2 combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Despite an increasing number of vehicles, consumption by our commercial fleet decreased by more than 2%.
Much of this was due to the decision by our business in Australasia to transfer to third party carriers in order to gain additional efficiencies and flexibility but also included increased fuel efficiencies.
Carbon emissions: 5.2 5.4 4.5 Reduce emissions The 2016 figure represents a 26% reduction in emissions Reduce emissions by 2% Scope 2 Tonnes of by 13% against 2010 versus our 2010 baseline data decrease of 16% from 2015. against 2016.
CO e m revenue baseline data Our emissions are represented as an index against revenue 2 This reduction target reduce 2% from and in 2016 the reduction in the index was affected by excludes any foreign 2015. the weakening of sterling against the major currencies in exchange translation the last quarter of the CR reporting year.
We estimate that effect on revenue the exchange rate effect increased the reduction by c. 4%.
numbers Increases resulting from acquisitions have been more than offset by the continued implementation of low energy lighting.
In particular, projects within UK & Ireland reduced overall business area consumption by 11%.
Total Scope 1 & 2 20.9 20.1 17.1 Reduce emissions The 2016 figure represents a 35% reduction in emissions Reduce emissions by 1% emissions Tonnes by 25% against 2010 versus our 2010 baseline data decrease of 15% from 2015. against 2016. of CO e m baseline data.
Our emissions are represented as an index against revenue 2 This reduction target revenue and in 2016 the reduction in the index was affected by the excludes any foreign weakening of sterling against the major currencies in the last exchange translation quarter of the CR reporting year.
We estimate that the effect on revenue exchange rate effect increased the reduction by c. 4%.
numbers Suppliers Responsible sourcing, working as partners with our suppliers to encourage high levels of CR and ethical trading initiatives Asian supplier CR 323 382 449 Undertake a Our global sourcing audit team continued to refine its Launch a training audits and supplier risk CR audit programme to categorise suppliers appropriately programme covering assessments assessment in in relation to their standards and practices.
The Risk social risks in our global covering relation to enforced Management Committee worked with consultants to supply chain.
complete a risk assessment of social risks in our global Refine supplier CR social standards supply chain including forced labour slavery.
Number of audits assessments carried out Community Providing support to our local communities through employee fundraising, matched funding and donations of stock and cash to charitable organisations Charity donations 572 631 712 Continue to support Bunzl supported a variety of projects for charities supporting Continue to support 000s relevant charities.
For example, we continued relevant charities.
to fund a mobile first aid vehicle for St John Ambulance and contributed towards the Defence and National Rehabilitation Centre in Loughborough and the Buglife Urban Buzz project at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham.
42 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Total workforce Gender split at 31 December 2016 Employees Health & safety Bunzl currently operates in 30 countries Health and safety remains a priority for Male 10,775 worldwide.
We are a service provider, not a Bunzl and it is our aim that no employee or Female 5,802 manufacturer and, as such, our business other person should be injured as a result of relies heavily on the skills and experience of our operations.
Regretfully in the 2016 our employees.
We pride ourselves on the reporting period there was one fatality fact that we run our businesses locally with 2015: two when a motorcyclist died 35% local managers.
We do not unfairly following a collision with a Bunzl car driver.
discriminate and we respect human rights.
We seek to recruit the right people who are We continue to invest in premises and passionate about our business and to equipment to improve the safety of our 65% provide opportunities for people to progress employees and others.
Although we aim to within the organisation on the basis of their minimise the risks which occur, particularly skills, experience and aptitude.
We believe relating to the operation of our warehouses that to get the best from people we need to and vehicles, incidents involving manual respect each other and encourage honest, handling, slipping and tripping and impact Senior management straightforward communication.
Our with equipment objects remain the highest acquisition pipeline continues to be a causes of accidents and days lost.
Together Gender split at 31 December 2016 valuable source of management talent for these three hazards represent 90% of the Group and the completion of a number incidents and 92% of days lost.
All our Male 376 Female 40 of acquisitions during the year has brought businesses are required to comply with further highly skilled people into Bunzl.
Group policies issued through the Risk Details of the Groups workforce diversity Management Committee which reviews 10% at 31 December 2016 are set out in the Group safety performance on a quarterly charts on the right.
Implementation of Group policies is audited by a team of safety professionals and safety standards are also reviewed as Human rights part of our internal audit process.
The Head Bunzl adheres to the Universal Declaration of Internal Audit has joined the Risk of Human Rights UDHR and upholds the Management Committee to integrate CR Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work further into our broader risk management 90% policies, defined by the International Labour processes.
Organization, as well as applicable local laws.
The majority of countries in which Board composition Following a successful pilot project, the use Bunzl operates have their own laws banning 6 male, 2 female of telematics has been extended across child and forced labour and promoting France Hygienes commercial fleet which human rights.
We monitor the age of our is our largest fleet in Continental Europe.
workforce across the world to ensure Average number of employees The majority of commercial vehicles now compliance and identify any potential have on-board telematics that enable By business area succession issues.
In the US some of our us to improve safety.
UK & Ireland have operations, particularly in the north east, North America 5,478 completed 37% of the project to fit are represented by trade unions with which Continental Europe 4,029 commercial vehicles with multiple cameras, we have negotiated pay contracts.
Bunzl UK & Ireland 3,641 side proximity sensors and audible left turn does not restrict any of its employees in any Rest of the World 3,082 and reversing warnings to improve road of the countries in which it operates from safety both for our drivers and other road joining a trade union if they wish to do so.
users, as well as reduce vehicle damage.
We also work closely with our suppliers 19% They have also introduced a Safe Urban with a view to ensuring that they at least Driving course comprising practical cycling 34% meet internationally recognised minimum and a classroom based session designed to requirements for workers welfare and provide our commercial drivers with conditions of employment, as defined by first-hand experience of being a vulnerable the International Labour Organization or 22% road user.
the Ethical Trading Initiative, and do not use any forced labour.
Our safety awareness programmes are 25% management led within the business areas.
France Hygiene, which had the highest incidence and severity rate in the Group, held a meeting of logistics directors and managers to brainstorm ways to improve safety and strengthen the focus on their 43 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued All acquisitions made prior to the 2016 reporting year are now providing Incidence rate environmental data.
Revenue relating Average number of 143 142 Environment climate change to more recent acquisitions which are incidents per month per not yet reporting emissions is excluded.
115 We seek to minimise the contribution of 100,000 employees 107 The reported data covers around 99% of 99 Bunzls operations to climate change and to the Group by revenue.
prevent other harmful effects of Bunzls operations on the environment.
Operational The requirements of the EU Energy efficiency forms part of our longEfficiency Directive have been implemented established and successful strategy to in all relevant businesses across develop the business and the reduction of 12 13 14 15 16 Continental Europe and UK & Ireland.
energy consumption is an integral part of A number of locations in UK & Ireland, operational efficiency.
Our facilities Australasia and Continental Europe have worldwide operate to Group standards and Severity rate renewed their ISO 14001 accreditation.
we promote environmental awareness Currently, measured by revenue, Average number of days throughout the business.
Our policy of approximately 26% of the Groups lost per month per leasing premises provides flexibility in the operations are ISO 14001 accredited.
100,000 employees configuration of our footprint to optimise the Accreditation is based on processes and efficiency of our distribution.
Bunzl had no practices which are implemented Groupsignificant environmental incidents in 2016. wide through our EHS management programme, although some parts of the Direct water usage is not a significant business have not elected to become environmental impact for our business as it formally certified.
In Continental Europe, is principally confined to staff hygiene and 12 13 14 15 16 France Securite has become MASE certified workplace cleaning purposes.
As we do not to reflect the requirements of its customer manufacture any of the goods we sell, water Included in the external auditors limited assurance base.
This certification encompasses discharges, apart from internal sanitation, scope referred to on page 46.
2015 and 2014 data was continuous improvement in EHS also assured as detailed in the 2015 and 2014 Annual are limited to rainwater run-off from the Reports respectively.
performance and is externally assessed.
yards of Group locations where the water is treated by interceptors in accordance with high risk groups of workers.
identified at the meeting are being Waste implemented across the business.
The root Our reported environmental data includes Tonnes per m revenue cause of many incidents is shown to be a all businesses that are subsidiaries of the failure to implement established safe 0.2 Incinerated waste Group for financial reporting purposes, with 0.2 0.2 working practices.
Our Safety Observation General waste 0.8 the exception of those recent acquisitions 0.8 Programme, providing ongoing feedback to 0.8 Recovered recycled 0.1 0.1 where there has been insufficient our employees on both good and poor safety waste opportunity for the businesses to adopt our 0.9 2.0 0.7 performance, continues to be extended 1.8 1.7 reporting guidelines, in which case the across the business.
In North America a revenue from the businesses is not included 1.3 number of sites are evaluating pre-shift 1.1 when calculating the indexed emissions.
We stretching programmes as a way to reduce integrate our environmental reporting with manual handling injuries.
Investment in our financial reporting through the annual additional Environment, Health & Safety 12 13 14 15 16 budget review.
Businesses provide EHS management resource has occurred commentary on their environmental in North America and Continental Europe.
performance and set targets for the Scope 3 carbon emissions During the year we have implemented our following year.
Environmental data is upgraded web-based EHS reporting system Tonnes of CO per m revenue 2 reviewed and agreed by the relevant in order to provide improved analysis and 0.2 0.4 Finance Directors.
The system includes 0.2 0.2 1.6 0.3 0.4 Electricity transmission an improved audit system which enables 13.0 1.2 1.3 Business travel 11.7 11.5 progress on corrective actions to be tracked Third party carriers by the EHS managers.
Details of our performance from 2012 to Carbon emissions from waste 2016 are provided in the bar charts above.
have been restated for 2014 and The accident data provided covers more 2015 to reflect more accurate conversion rates.
than 99% of the Group by revenue as it 14 15 16 excludes the most recent acquisitions whose employee numbers are not included when calculating the index.
44 3,640 3,686 3,596 3,021 2,080 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Greenhouse gas emissions data for the period 1 October to 30 September Tonnes of CO e 2 Base year 2010 2015 2016 Suppliers Scope 1 95,249 92,645 89,186 Price is only one factor in our purchasing Scope 2 28,757 33,843 32,201 decisions and matters such as quality, Total gross emissions 124,006 126,488 121,387 availability, our customers preferences and Total carbon emissions our policies are also taken into account.
The per m revenue 26.3 20.1 17.1 vast majority of our products are sourced locally by our businesses but many products Included in the external auditors limited assurance scope referred to on page 46.
The data for 2015 was also are sourced elsewhere if it is appropriate to assured as detailed in the 2015 Annual Report.
Each business area is responsible for Scope 1: Fuel for transportation remains In addition, as energy contracts are implementing appropriate processes to our highest source of CO e emissions renewed, businesses are moving to low 2 assess key suppliers compliance with the contributing c. 85% of Scope 1 and 62% of carbon energy where this makes relevant CR standards and to monitor combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Of those commercial sense and is supported by the performance and improvements against emissions relating to transportation, more local infrastructure.
Bunzl focuses on its key than 75% are generated by our fleet of suppliers to ensure that they meet the same commercial vehicles.
Fuel represents a Scope 3: We are continuing to refine the CR standards we have set for ourselves.
significant cost to the business and we are data for our Scope 3 emissions.
Our We periodically write to those suppliers focused on maximising the efficiency of our reporting comprises emissions from third that provide us with 50% of our products fleet through regular replacement and party carriers, business flights, waste and by value to ensure that our CR aspirations maintenance of vehicles, route optimisation, electricity transmission losses.
the use of vehicle telematics and driver majority of the businesses which have been training programmes.
In North America, acquired since 2010 do not have their own To assist the business areas, we have our where we have our largest commercial fleet and in addition all our businesses, own quality assurance quality control fleet, the combination of these measures irrespective of whether they have their own department based in Shanghai which provided a 4% improvement in fuel fleet, will distribute a proportion of goods performs regular audits of our suppliers in efficiency during the year.
At Group level by third party carriers where it is more Asia to ensure that they meet international diesel consumed by our commercial fleet efficient and cost-effective to do so.
The standards, as well as testing the factories decreased by more than 2%.
Increases in bar graph opposite shows that third party production capabilities and their quality Continental Europe and Latin America carriers produce the largest part of our assurance and quality control systems.
resulting from acquisitions have been offset reported Scope 3 emissions.
Bunzl is an Employees terms and conditions of work, by decreases in North America, UK & international company with an active global customer service capabilities, hygiene Ireland and Australasia.
In Australasia the acquisition programme and business flights management systems and their policies and need for greater flexibility of transport are essential for the effective management practices on environmental issues are also methods and efficiency in distribution has and growth of our business.
Our policy is that all our suppliers resulted in the decision to transfer use alternative means of communication meet internationally recognised minimum distribution to third party carriers.
This is such as video and telephone conferencing requirements for workers welfare and an ongoing process.
We seek to minimise and flights are justified by business needs conditions of employment, as defined by the number of miles that our vehicles travel and subject to authorisation by senior the International Labour Organization or empty on the road by backhauling, typically management.
Reduction and segregation of the Ethical Trading Initiative.
During 2016 using empty vehicles to collect stock from waste continues to be an area of focus and the team has continued to grow and has suppliers.
Consumption of gas during the the data provided covers approximately 95% further refined its CR audit programme year fell by 11% primarily as a result of the of the Group by revenue, although accurate to categorise suppliers appropriately in relatively mild winter.
relation to their standards and practices.
Despite including this in our Scope 3 Scope 2: Electricity consumption has calculation, we have for transparency Suppliers who are unable to meet all the decreased by 1% despite an increase in continued to provide waste data separately requirements after an initial assessment warehouse space due to acquisitions and as well.
audit are given the opportunity to comply organic growth of the business.
Lighting is fully within a period which is deemed our highest category of electricity appropriate for the circumstances.
If a consumption and we continue to review the serious breach is identified following return on investment on low energy lighting assessment, an action plan is documented at all our sites worldwide as the technology and the supplier is expected to commit progresses and improves the efficiency of to addressing all the areas where such lighting.
We also fit voltage optimisers discrepancies have been identified.
The where this is beneficial.
During the year process of improvement via this method is there have been 13 projects to upgrade principally reliant on the commitment of the lighting providing annualised savings of suppliers management team owner agent approximately 2.1 million kWh of electricity.
to ensure that all areas are addressed.
45 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued If we have reason to believe that the A limited assurance engagement is supplier is not making sufficient or substantially less in scope than a committed progress, this could lead to a reasonable assurance engagement in suspension in the relationship until such Community relation to both the risk assessment time that we are confident that all areas procedures, including an understanding Although Bunzls operations are are being satisfactorily addressed.
Bunzl of internal control, and the procedures international, our strength is in the local companies reserve the right to cease a performed in response to the assessed nature of our businesses.
In keeping with relationship with a supplier if it is found that risks.
In order to reach their opinion, PwC this ethos, we particularly support the unacceptable practices are being employed performed a range of procedures including fundraising activities championed by our at any sites used for producing or sourcing making enquiries of relevant Bunzl employees locally.
This is supplemented by Bunzl products.
Such practices include use management, and evaluating the design donations made at Group level to charities of child labour, forced or bonded labour of the key structures, systems, processes predominantly in the fields of healthcare as well as physical abuse or discipline and and controls for managing, recording and the environment to support projects intimidation, illegal discrimination, wages and reporting the selected information.
often in the communities where our not meeting local minimum requirements This included analysing and testing over operations are based.
Where possible and and not providing adequate days of rest.
a number of sites selected on the basis of appropriate, Bunzl also looks to donate Since 2015, in order to enhance the their inherent risk and materiality to the stock free of charge in-kind.
Group wide, processes further, any suppliers that are Group, to understand the key processes Bunzl donated a total of 712,000 to being monitored and assessed due to and controls for reporting site performance charitable causes during 2016 2015: identification of a serious breach are now data and to obtain supporting information.
This does not include in-kind reported to and reviewed by the Board.
In Finally PwC performed limited substantive donations or employee fundraising.
2016 we completed a quantitative analysis testing on a selective basis of the selected of material social risks in our worldwide information in relation to one site in UK & We continue to support our employees in supply chain.
Suppliers were ranked against Ireland and multiple sites across North their charitable fundraising, for example Human and Labour rights identified by America and Continental Europe to check a triathlon challenge raising money for internationally agreed standards and that data had been appropriately measured, childrens medical research, as well as credible data taking account of geography included, collated and reported.
supporting projects for healthcare and and product.
This is an ongoing project environmental charities, such as sponsoring but we are satisfied that those suppliers Non-financial performance information, Buglife who improve parks and green assessed as high risk and who are currently including greenhouse gas quantification spaces within big cities to create natural supplying Bunzl are covered by our audit in particular, is subject to more inherent habitats for invertebrate insects which play programme.
It is a big part in our ecosystem.
important to read the selected corporate We work with our suppliers with the aim of responsibility information contained in For more information on all of Bunzls ensuing the products we supply are this Annual Report in the context of PwCs CR policies and activities please visit the manufactured from sustainably sourced full limited assurance opinion and the Responsibility section of our website, raw materials.
We also continue to refine Companys Corporate Responsibility www.
our processes to ensure that imported Performance Reporting Guidelines which paper and wood based products are are also available in the Responsibility External assurance manufactured from legally sourced timber.
We engaged  LLP PwC to undertake a limited assurance engagement, reporting to Bunzl plc only, using International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 Revised : Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information and ISAE 3410: Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements over the three KPIs on page 17 and the data on pages 44 and 45, in each case that has been highlighted with the symbol.
They have provided an unqualified opinion in relation to the relevant KPIs and data and their full assurance opinion is also available in the Responsibility section of our website, www.
46 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Risks The Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 35 to 37 details the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or results of operations.
Although many CR risks are not seen as principal risks to the Group, as part of the Group risk analysis a number of CR risks which could impact the Groups business have been identified and these are set out below together with the steps taken by management to mitigate such risks.
CR risks Risk Description Mitigating factors Lack of adherence to the Groups CR policies could result in The Group has comprehensive CR policies and procedures CR compliance a variety of issues including those relating to inappropriate including those relating to anti-bribery and corruption in failures business practices, accidents at work and increased levies place throughout the business as well as an established due to levels of waste or carbon emissions.
Regular training in all areas of CR takes place using our suite of e-training modules.
The Group is not capital intensive but the business is based The Group seeks to secure key staff with appropriate Loss of key on strong customer and supplier relationships which are incentive packages, development opportunities and career employees built up locally.
Stability of key relationship roles amongst progression.
Voluntary staff turnover and sickness absence the Groups employees is therefore important.
is measured on a monthly basis and employee age profiles are reviewed annually.
This enables any issues to be identified and resolved.
Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme The Group has multi-site facilities with products stocked in Loss of operating weather conditions.
This could result in some of the Groups more than one location, as a result of which the Group facilities facilities being affected or employees being unable to attend usually has the ability to distribute products from nearby unavailability for work.
Business continuity plans are in place to minimise of staff the impact of any such issues.
The Group is not a manufacturer and has many international The Groups key suppliers are principally publicly owned Suppliers suppliers across the world.
The failure of one of the Groups multinational organisations with high standards of non-compliance key suppliers to adhere to recognised CR standards could operations.
Suppliers are monitored by the Groups with good CR affect the Groups reputation.
purchasing departments and the quality assurance quality practices control department based in China audits key suppliers throughout Asia.
The top 50% of suppliers by value of Bunzl spend are made aware of the Groups CR aspirations.
These risks are seen to be outweighed by a variety of opportunities that arise as a consequence of CR and its impact on the business environment as previously outlined in this report.
Sustainability has been at the heart of our business for many years.
Segregation of waste is embedded in our everyday working practices, while we work hand-in-hand with our customers on packaging reduction ideas.
