Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Covent Garden Apple Market Challenge Capco is making a positive impact in the Capital from a social KEY FACTS and environmental perspective.
Hours of training activities The Companys Corporate Responsibility CR strategy remains at the heart of what we do and our programme of activities ensures that Capco is making a positive social and environmental impact in the Capital.
462 Our programme of community outreach reflects our desire to improve key social problems in London, namely youth employment, homelessness and the support of ex-military personnel.
As responsible stewards of leading London estates, enhancement of the environment is an important priority across the Group.
Volunteer hours on CR activities We are committed to providing the highest standards of health and safety at our assets and for our employees and expect our suppliers to support us in achieving this commitment.
CR activity across the business is driven by the operational committees that focus on environmental and community strategy and report to the CR Executive Committee.
882 Our talented people are at the core of our success and we continue to develop people by building individual careers in order to further embed our entrepreneurial culture.
Support of charitable causes We report on performance against our key targets for 2016 in this report and further information can be found on our website.
156k Reduction in absolute greenhouse gas emissions across our portfolio 14% www.
com 47 Corporate responsibility continued It is our intention to benefit the communities in which our assets MATERIALITY are located, providing development opportunities to our talented We monitor and assess the effectiveness of our CR strategy and people and respecting the environment.
measure impact in three fundamental areas: people, community and environment.
In addition we monitor health and safety standards across the Group.
A summary of progress against all our 2016 targets can be found in the Responsibility section of the Capco corporate website.
See pages 49 & 50 See pages 51 & 52 See pages 53 & 54 PEOPLE COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT TALENT SUPPORTING LOCAL ENERGY & CARBON Our teams of highly skilled and motivated ECONOMIES MANAGEMENT peopleare critical to the successful delivery We work hand-in-hand with the community We are committed to improving the energy of our business plan.
We aim to develop in the areas of London in which we invest, efficiency of our portfolio and to lowering careers within the Company and promote and have bespoke programmes centred on our carbon emissions.
In 2016 we made from within whenever possible.
youth employment, the homeless and a number of upgrades to install energy military veterans.
efficient equipment and continue to increase our purchasing of green tariff electricity.
REWARD We benchmark our remuneration and aim EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES to be at upper quartile in our sector.
We We deliver an education programme to RESPONSIBLE DEVELOPMENT reward performance against objectives set primary and secondary schools in Covent We are committed to integrating responsible through competitive salaries, discretionary Garden and Earls Court, designed to and sustainable practices into the delivery bonus and share awards.
introduce children of school age to specific of projects and development.
We achieved issues affecting their areas of London.
BREEAM Very Good certification for the refurbishment of Grade II listed retail CULTURE unit 38 King Street, installed solar panels With constant momentum the business is CHARITY PROGRAMMES as part of the refurbishment works at 26-27 both fast-moving and entrepreneurial.
We We have long-standing relationships Southampton Street and installed rainwater have a high performance culture in which with selected charities which are aligned harvesting at Lillie Square.
innovation and creativity are encouraged.
We remain focused on benefiting young people, veterans and SUSTAINABILITY INDICES GIVING BACK the homeless.
We continue to monitor and report We aim to make a difference in the Capitals performance in line with industry society and have well-established associations sustainability reporting benchmarks.
with our volunteer organisations and We remain a participant of the FTSE4Good chosen charities.
We make every effort to Index and achieved a B rating in the CDP identifyvolunteering opportunities for our Climate Change Programme.
In 2016 we staff and we are proud of their commitment made our first submission to the Global and engagement with our CR programme.
Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB and achieved a Green Star rating.
See page 55 HEALTH & SAFETY We continue to strive for health and safety excellence across all of our property activities in order to offer the highest levels of protection for our employees, supply chain partners and the members of the public who interact with our business operations.
THE COVENT GARDEN ESTATE WE AIM TO BENEFIT YOUNG THE EARLS COURT PROJECT TEAM RELAUNCHED A STREET CLEANING PEOPLE IN AREAS WHERE OUR PUT THEIR LANDSCAPING SKILLS PROGRAMME ASSETS ARE LOCATED TO USE The Lord Mayor of Westminster joined our Local primary schools took part in this years The Earls Court project team put their team to clean King Street and helped launch Apple Market Challenge and the finalists met landscaping and construction skills to good the new heritage style cleaners uniforms with traders and presented their ideas to a use by helping to plant some of Hammersmith panel of judges Community Gardens Associations HCGAs 8,000 spring bulbs in Wormholt Park 48 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements PEOPLE 2016 ACHIEVEMENTS People are the key to our success and we are proud Benefits We engaged a new pension provider, giving staff access of our team ethos and results oriented approach.
to enhanced tools for their pension arrangements.
We aim to develop careers by promoting talented Leadership development Recognising that effective line management is a key individuals to positions of leadership.
component of business success, we ran a series of manager toolkit sessions which received positive feedback across the business.
Graduate intake TALENT We continue to hand pick top graduates to join our Our aim is to manage talent effectively and ensure that we have development programme and enjoy the challenge of sufficient capability to realise our ambitious strategy.
undertake succession planning exercises to review the talent pipeline and progress individuals according to capability.
We recruit top graduates each year who pursue an internal OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2017 programme of training and mentoring, which will ensure they are well prepared for the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS Assessment of Professional Competence APC.
Performance measurement Each graduate is assigned an experienced Capco counsellor In 2017 we will introduce a revised performance review process and supervisor who guides them through the APC process.
that will support meaningful individual discussion regarding past and future performance.
New opportunities that arise in the business are advertised internally and we aim to promote internal candidates in order Graduate intake to enhance career development and encourage mobility across the We will make further investment in the recruitment of new company.
We have extended our approach to induction to include graduates and the on-going extension of the graduate transition coaching to those in new roles.
development programme to preserve our talent pipeline.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Leadership capability Capco training and development programmes are designed We will further enhance the capability of the leadership team to augment the bench strength of our teams and challenge through mentoring and a series of internally delivered aspiring leaders.
Individual training and development needs are identified and discussed at performance review meetings with line managers.
CULTURE During 2016, our employees spent 462hours on training activity.
The high performance culture at Capco is reflective of our Through our sponsorship of individuals undertaking further ambitious and innovative business strategy.
Typically, Capco people professional qualifications, we encourage continuous learning, are results-driven and brave in their approach to new ideas.
Many of reflecting our intention to create a knowledgeable environment.
our people are in new roles and have assumed increased levels of responsibility since joining Capco.
In order to promote knowledge transfer across the Company, we run a series of lunch and learn sessions, where business We have a good track record of supporting staff development and leaders showcase their strategy to other employees, in order promoting fromwithin the business.
We aim to fill vacancies from to enhance understanding of wider business objectives.
our existing people where possible.
We recognise that coaching and mentoring can have significant We support new parents returning to the workplace and encourage impact on behaviours and key staff continue to benefit from our people to adopt a healthy attitude to work-life balance.
DIVERSITY PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT We believe that every person in the Company has a part to play in Annual performance objectives for individuals are agreed at generating value and we understand fully the benefits of a diverse performance review meetings which take place at the beginning workforce.
Diversity is considered when making appointments of the calendar year.
Performance is measured against objectives at all levels.
As a sign of our commitment to diversity in the work set for the previous year and individual performance ratings place we have signed up to the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality underpin discretionary bonus awards which are paid in April Mark and we work with peer companies to promote diversity and of each year.
equal opportunities within the property sector.
We regard the giving of regular and direct feedback as a core We are keen to develop female talent across the business and competency of effective leadership and encourage line managers provide mentoring to management.
We are proud that 50 per cent to appraise performance regularly during the year.
of the senior management team are female.
A summary of gender diversity across the Company is set out on page 50.
We support a number of initiatives which aim to increase diversity in business including the University of Reading Pathways to Property Programme.
com 49 Corporate responsibility continued BENEFITS In addition to core elements, we reward people with an attractive WE ENCOURAGE COLLABORATIVE WORKING package of additional benefits.
WITHIN AND ACROSS TEAMS Our competitive package of benefits includes private medical insurance and also covers dental treatment.
The Company contributes up to 10 per cent of salary into the MyCapco pension scheme.
Our policy is to enable employees to take their full annual leave entitlement of 28 days per annum, rising to 30 days after four years service.
LIFESTYLE PROGRAMME The lifestyle programme continued during 2016 with sessions on the importance of balanced nutrition and further information on financial matters such as mortgages and financial planning.
REWARD The aim of our reward strategy is to compensate people for high performance and to incentivise them to strive to improve.
The Annual Finance CR day took place during September, Core compensation packages at Capco comprise three elements with 30 employees preparing activities and socialising of base salary, discretionary performance bonus and discretionary with 30 Equal People Mencap clients.
The events of the share awards.
day were aimed at assisting members of the charity with communication skills and confidence We regularly benchmark our approach to reward to ensure that we remain competitive in the market and we aim to remain within the upper quartile range of our sector.
Awards are made in April of each year and take account of performance ratings discussed at performance review meetings in January.
All Capco employees are eligible to receive share awards Gender diversity % so that everyone can participate in the success of the Company.
These awards have a three-year performance period and are 1 10 133 100 subject to corporate performance conditions.
9 HUMAN RIGHTS 75 This report does not contain specific information on human rights issues as this is not considered necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or position of the Companys 163 50 10 business.
However, Capco has adopted a CR policy and a supply chain policy which reflect a responsible approach to human rights.
25 MODERN SLAVERY In accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015, the Board has approved a Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 0 Board Senior All which has been published on our website.
The statement details management employees the steps we take to avoid slavery and human trafficking in our own operations and in our supply chain.
We believe that our own Male Female operations present minimal risk, but recognise that a higher level of risk is posed by the suppliers we engage with to provide goods and services.
In 2016 we undertook to review our suppliers in order to establish any areas of risk.
In the year ahead we plan to update relevant policies to include specific reference to modern slavery and we will continue to raise awareness by engaging with our supply chain and our employees.
50 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements COMMUNITY 2016 ACHIEVEMENTS During 2016, Capco continued to work to benefit Local initiatives We have delivered a range of local community and education the communities in which we operate and projects on our estates that have benefited people of all ages.
to support our chosen charities.
Capco staff Charitable donations committed a total of 882hours to CR related This year we have developed close ties with our chosen activity against a target of 450 hours and charities which align with our overarching CR strategy, and have provided 156,000 of support to charitable causes.
volunteered to help with CR projects.
Staff CR engagement Benefiting the communities in which our assets Capco staff remain committed to participating in CR related activities and undertook 882 hours of CR related activity are located is the cornerstone of the stewardship during the year.
OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2017 SUPPORTING LOCAL ECONOMIES Workplace Coordinators recruitment breakfast Apprenticeships In January 2016, Capco sponsored a breakfast for local businesses, We will continue to identify opportunities for apprenticeships jointly hosted by Councillor Astaire from Westminster City for local young people across our assets and encourage our Council, promoting both the Recruit London initiative and contractors to support this initiative.
an apprenticeship scheme run by FM Conway, Westminsters maintenance supplier.
Capco has supported Westminster City Education programme Council in the employment of a Workplace Coordinator under the We will extend the number of schools that participate in the Recruit London scheme who has successfully placed 32candidates, Capco Education Programme, building further on our success including 11long-term unemployed, all of whom live in Westminster.
with school children of all ages.
District stewardship Charitable work The Covent Garden team took part in the cleaning of the district We will promote a volunteering programme with Bishop in August.
Each team member spent two hours with a member Creighton House, an active community-based charity in of the cleaning team picking up litter, emptying bins, cleaning Earls Court, working with disadvantaged people of all ages.
pavements or removing chewing gum.
The Lord Mayor of We will encourage employees to engage in CR initiatives Westminster joined Andy Hicks, Estate Director, to clean King and contribute 500 employee hours to supporting CR Street and help launch the new heritage style cleaners uniform.
Our cleaning teams continue to supplement Westminster City Councils street cleaning activities throughout the district.
Capco continues to fund additional security teams patrolling the estate following an increase in the national security threat level.
ENABLING ENTERPRISE COLLABORATION This includes 24 hour monitoring of CCTV and extensive patrolling of the estate throughout the day and night.
Working with Westminster City Council, Capco initiated the pedestrianisation of King Street in Covent Garden.
Businesses have seen an increase in trade and we hope that by removing vehicles during trading hours there will be an improvement in air quality and the environment for residents and visitors.
Apple Market Challenge A total of 10 primary schools took part in this years challenge to design a product that could be sold in the Apple Market in the Covent Garden Market Building.
The finalists visited the Apple Market to meet traders and then present their ideas to a panel of judges.
This years winner was St Clement Danes School with their multi-function designer glasses incorporating tourist information.
Santa made a surprise visit to hand out the prizes.
When collaborating with Enabling Enterprise, we hosted an event for Year 5 pupils of Wendell Primary School.
Students researched and created plans for the renovation of a fictitious town within budgetary constraints www.
com 51 Corporate responsibility continued CHARITABLE SUPPORT Sir Simon Milton Foundation quiz night SIR SIMON MILTON FOUNDATION QUIZ NIGHT We once again co-hosted the annual Sir Simon Milton Foundation quiz night, raising 37,860, the highest amount to date, with 18 Capco employees taking part and volunteering at the event.
Covent Garden treasure hunt Covent Garden teams went up against our consultants and contractors in a bid to be crowned champion of the spy themed treasure hunt.
Ten teams raced around Covent Garden with GPS tablets answering clues, raising 5,000 for St Pauls Church in Covent Garden.
Poppy appeal Capco once again sponsored London Poppy Day, hosting a range of activities on the Piazza, including the Spitfire choir and the Central Band of the Royal Air Force, raising 6,878.
Homelessness We launched a volunteering programme with the homeless centre, The Connection at St. Martins, with employees serving lunches each Friday.
Capco once again co-hosted the Sir Simon Milton EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES Foundation quiz night, raising 37,860 The Fulham Primary School project explored how the Earls Court development would impact children in the future.
The children explored the history of the Earls Court development and visited the Lillie Square marketing suite and show apartments, discussing During the year we collaborated with a not-for-profit social the details of the project with a Capco representative.
Their work organisation called Enabling Enterprise by hosting an event led by was presented at Hammersmith and Fulham Town Hall.
Enabling Enterprise for Year 5 pupils from Wendell Park Primary During the Fulham Boys School project, the students were able School in Hammersmith.
The students researched and created to become familiar with real life case studies of changing urban plans for the renovation of a fictitious town within budgetary landscapes and visited the Lillie Square construction site.
constraints and Capco volunteers assisted with the facilitation of the session.
In the summer of 2016, we worked with Year 4 at Sir John Lillie Primary School and Year 5 at Bousfield Primary School.
At Sir John We collaborated with the Urban Land Institute on their Urban Lillie Primary School, the pupils learned about the history of Plan Project which introduced students to the various market and Normand Park and the Clem Attlee Estate, and the Bousfield non-market forces involved in the built environment industry.
Primary School project focused on learning about the plans Working in teams, students formed a property development for Earls Court.
The children visited Earls Court and carried company and responded to a brief to redevelop a blighted site.
out shop and traffic surveys.
The first project was based at Fulham College.
The Little Architect project continued in 2016, working with St Josephs Primary School, Covent Garden and Queens Manor Primary School, Fulham.
The aim of the project was to foster enjoyment in the built environment at an early age.
52 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ENVIRONMENT 2016 ACHIEVEMENTS Reduced energy use by 3 per cent compared to 2015 on a Capco aims to minimise the impact of our like-for-like basis, meeting our 3 per cent reduction target.
We apply Achieved BREEAM Very Good certification for the a responsible and forward-looking approach refurbishment of Grade II listed 38 King Street and attained to environmental issues and the principles design-stage BREEAM Excellent certification for the residential refurbishments at Floral Court and 26-27 of sustainability.
71 per cent of electricity purchased via greenenergy tariffs and switched to a green gas energy tariff for the Covent Garden estate.
ENERGY & CARBON We met our target to reduce energy use by 3 per cent on a likeLillie Square Phase 1 scored an exemplary Considerate for-like basis compared to 2015.
Implementing energy efficiency Constructors Score of 45 out of 50, which puts the site in measures has contributed towards meeting our target, including the top 1 per cent of all participating construction sites installing new efficient lighting at a number of assets in Covent in the country.
Garden and recommissioning energy controls at Olympia London.
100 per cent of operational non-hazardous waste diverted To minimise our carbon impact, we have taken steps to from landfill at Olympia London, the Covent Garden estate purchase electricity through green energy tariffs where possible.
and our 15 Grosvenor Street office.
At Covent Garden, we have in place our first green gas tariff, Participated in the Global Real Estate Sustainability where biogas is sourced through our supplier from processes Benchmark GRESB for the first time and achieved such as anaerobic digestion.
Wemonitor assets with an Energy Performance Certificate EPC lower than an E rating.
Although many of our assets are listed and exempt from the Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards, OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2017 we are regularly reviewing opportunities to improve energy efficiency and to lower tenant energy bills.
Energy & carbon WASTE & WATER MANAGEMENT Continue to identify opportunities to reduce energy use across Across our estates, we have continued to drive improvements in our estate and maintain a target of 3 per cent energy reduction recycling and achieved zero operational non-hazardous waste to for managed assets on a like-for-like basis compared to 2016. landfill at Olympia London, the Covent Garden estate and our 15Grosvenor Street office.
Waste & water management Aim to minimise waste to landfill from our managed A key focus in 2016 has been developing a waste consolidation properties and continue with the development of the Covent strategy for the Covent Garden estate.
By engaging with tenants Garden estate waste consolidation strategy.
and employees, we have made a strong start by lowering waste vehicle collections, improving street cleanliness and recycling Divert at least 90 per cent of non-hazardous waste from rates.
We will continue our consolidation activities in 2017. landfill in major refurbishment and construction projects.
We continue to monitor water consumption across our estates Responsible development and are committed to installing water efficient equipment during Continue to work towards achieving a minimum rating refurbishment works and in new assets.
We recognise that our of BREEAM Very Good on major construction projects and, main opportunity to influence water efficiency in the longer term where existing planning conditions apply, Code for is by designing for water efficiency.
To understand opportunities to reduce carbon impacts over a buildings life cycle, undertake an embodied carbon assessment of a project.
com 53 Corporate responsibility continued GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, Capco continues to monitor and report on the greenhouse gas emissions associated with its operations.
We have used DEFRA Environmental Reporting Guidelines and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to calculate emissions.
We have adopted the operational control consolidation method, as this reflects where we have the ability to influence energy use, and we have set a materiality threshold of 5 per cent for greenhouse gas reporting purposes.
Capco has engaged with Carbon Credentials Energy Services Limited to provide independent verification of the 2016 greenhouse gas emissions assertion in accordance with industry recognised standard ISO14064-3.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DATA FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 2016 Market-based method Location-based method 1 2 tCO2 tCO2e Emission Source 2016 2015 2016 2015 Scope 1 emissions: Direct emissions including fuel combustion in owned or controlled boilers and vehicles 1,289 1,356 Scope 2 emissions: Indirect emissions released into the atmosphere including purchased electricity 277 801 4,645 5,553 Total annual scope 1 and 2 emissions: 5,934 6,909 Intensity Ratio: Tonnes of CO e per m of Net Assets 1.87 2.03 2 1 Tonnes of carbon dioxide tCO2 2 Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO2e RESPONSIBLE DEVELOPMENT GARDEN MASTERCLASS AT THE EARLS COURT Capco is committed to integrating responsible and sustainable PROJECT ROOMS practices into the delivery of our projects and development.
In 2016 we launched our Sustainability Framework that sets out our approach to embedding sustainability principles into the design and construction of our developments.
Notable achievements this year include attaining BREEAM Very Good certification for the refurbishment of a Grade II listed retail unit 38 King Street, installing our first solar panels at 26-27 Southampton Street and installing our first rainwater harvesting system at Lillie Square.
At Floral Court and Lillie Square, we continue to work towards achieving a minimum of BREEAM Very Good and Code for Sustainable Homes Level 4 certification.
On-site projects are participants in the Considerate Constructors Scheme and in 2016 Lillie Square scored an exemplary 45 out of 50, which puts the site in the top 1 per cent of all participating construction sitesin the country.
We continue to meet our target to divert at least 85 per cent of waste from landfill and at the Earls Court demolition site we have achieved 99 per cent diversion rate to date.
Capco remains an active member of the UK Green Building Council, participating in the creation of the Councils new guidance on embodied carbon in development.
SUSTAINABILITY INDICES We monitor and report our performance in line with industry sustainability benchmarks.
In 2016 we remained a participant in the FTSE4Good Index and responded to the CDP Climate Change Programme, achieving a B rating.
To further our reporting, we participated in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark and achieved a Green Star rating.
We are also reporting in line with EPRA Sustainability Best Practice Recommendations.
For more information on our reporting visit www.
Mini-garden masterclass at the Earls Court Project Rooms 54 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 ACHIEVEMENTS Successful completion of the main Earls Court We are committed to providing the highest demolitionworks with a good health and safety performance.
standards of health and safety at our assets to Achievement of two million man hours worked at Lillie Square minimise the risk to our employees, contractors, Phase 1, RIDDOR free.
We expect our supply Enhancing our focus on the health and safety standards on our chain to support us in achieving this commitment small works projects to ensure that high levels of performance are maintained.
by applying a responsible risk based approach to the management of health and safety Olympia London achieved British Safety Council 5 Audit.
Embedding the enhanced governance and reporting framework across the business.
A decrease in total RIDDOR injuries from 13in 2015 to 11 MILESTONES in 2016.
2016 saw a number of key project milestones safely accomplished in partnership with our contractors, including the completion of the main demolition works at Earls Court and significant works OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2017 carried out at Floral Court, Covent Garden.
The completion of the first phase of residential units at Lillie Square accomplished the significant milestone of achieving two million man hours Continue to develop and embed health and safety strategies worked without a RIDDOR reportable incident.
at sector levels to support business plans and further develop key performance indicators to enhance the measurement Three of our development projects won Bronze awards at the of continual improvement.
In addition to this commitment, Considerate Constructors Scheme 2016 National Awards ceremony our 2017 health and safety objectives are to: in London.
The winning projects were Lillie Square Phase 1 at Earls Court, and Floral Court and 23 24 Henrietta Street at Covent Improve performance through sponsoring initiatives on Garden.
In May 2016 Olympia London undertook the British Safety our development projects and establishing mechanisms to Council 5 Audit programme and was awarded all five stars with communicate and embed lessons learned across the Group.
an overall compliance score of 92 per cent.
Enhance compliance by completing the delivery of the GOVERNANCE IOSH Managing Safely course to the property and project At a Group level the reinvigorated governance and reporting management teams and rolling out bespoke health and framework was fully implemented during 2016 with Sector Safety safety training to all senior operational and executive Leadership Teams SSLTs established for each asset, overseen by level employees.
the Group Safety Leadership Team GSLT, which is chaired by Recognise achievement through identifying suitable our General Counsel and championed by the Managing Director awards and submitting applications for whole and or and Chief Investment Officer.
The GSLT continued to regularly review the health and safety performance across the Group during the year and facilitated the sharing of lessons learnt and best practice across the management team.
There were three RIDDOR reportable injuries recorded involving contractor employees on Capco development projects.
The Accident The Board continues to take a keen interest in health and Frequency Rate AFR for Capco development projects at the end safety risks and achievements across the Group, receiving of 2016 stood at 0.13 and the Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate regular formal reports on health and safety, summarising LTIFR for 2016 was 0.35. health and safety performance.
Training As well as updating our governance and reporting framework, Members of operational management have attended the Institution the overarching Occupational Health and Safety Management of Occupational Safety and Health IOSH Directing Safely course System has also been reviewed and updated to create better and delivery of the IOSH Managing Safely course to the property alignment to OHSAS 18001. and project management teams commenced in 2016.
Our resilience to respond to incidents was enhanced during 2016 with specific health and safety incident response plans being integrated into the Group-wide business continuity and major incident response planning processes.
Scenario based desk top The sections of the Annual Report which make up the Strategic exercises were held at each asset to familiarise the major incident Report are set out on page 89.
The Strategic Report has been response teams with the enhanced plans.
approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 21 February 2017.
Reporting No work related fatalities were recorded in 2016.
There was a total of 11RIDDOR reportable injuries reported across the Group during 2016.
Five RIDDOR incidents on the Covent Garden estate were reported, all caused by slips and trips involving members of the public.
At Olympia London there were three RIDDOR incidents reported, two involving event contractor employees and one Ian Hawksworth involving an event exhibitor employee.
