58 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY At Capita, being a responsible business means that we operate with integrity, transparently and securely.
It involves creating a culture for our employees that is inclusive, inspiring and supportive.
Our four priority focus areas are: Our Corporate Responsibility CR leadership and governance CR strategy Accountability for our CR programmes 1.
Responsible business practices At Capita, being a responsible business sits with the Board, with our Group 2.
Delivering for our clients means that we operate with integrity, Finance Director having overall 3.
Our people and culture transparently and securely.
It involves responsibility for our CR strategy.
creating a culture for our employees that Each Executive Director is responsible 4.
Community investment is inclusive, inspiring and supportive.
for one or more of the focus areas.
Under each of these focus areas we have It allows us to innovate and deliver The CR steering group, which includes a number of programmes and align our smarter services for our clients.
functional heads from key areas, time, resources and investment to those These allow us to make a positive is responsible for implementing our identied as having the most impact on contribution to society, both through the strategy, developing our policies, our business.
We have set a number of services we provide as well as through providing guidance and sharing best non-financial KPIs around each priority our community investment programmes.
practice with the business, as well as area, measuring and reporting our Further, it gives us the opportunity to reporting progress to the Board.
See page 14. work collaboratively with our clients to support their own CR agendas.
The group meets throughout the year to As our activities in these areas are review our approach to CR, including any integral to our business performance, In 2016, we conducted a materiality risks and opportunities.
In 2016, the information relating to our impact areas assessment, engaging with a number of topics covered included our updated is integrated throughout this report stakeholders, both internal and external, ethical code, our response to the Modern including how we manage our people to understand what our significant Slavery Act, our new procurement policy see pages 5657. economic, environmental and social and the supplier auditing process.
impacts are, or those that inuence the decisions of our stakeholders.
We have used their feedback to inform how we prioritise our core corporate responsibility impacts and where we will focus our efforts going forward.
For more details about this see our materiality matrix www.
com responsibility Four OUR FOUR PRIORITY FOCUS AREAS ARE: 1.
OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE OF OUR SUPPLIER 4.
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT BASE ARE SMES
