59 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED In 2016, we developed a new procurement highlights a potential risk area, the Responsible business practices policy and standard which set out our supplier will be further assessed by We believe in operating with integrity, strategic approach and key principles subject matter experts from across our both in our business decision making and to ensure we manage our procurement business who will work with the supplier the conduct of our employees.
We have activity and effectively.
Our supplier to ensure they meet our standards.
a detailed framework of policies and requirements standard sets out our procedures in place across the Group We treat our suppliers fairly and actively expectations of suppliers and their including our ethical code, bribery and encourage supplier diversity, providing all supply chain, ensuring that both Capita corruption, human rights, environment suppliers with the opportunity to work and our suppliers comply with the and information security, as well as HR with us.
Currently, 70% of our supplier changing regulatory and legal landscape policies, which collectively set out how base are SMEs.
in which we operate, including the we do business.
We also set out the Modern Slavery Act.
standards that we expect our suppliers Human rights to meet.
Through our risk management We also reviewed how we categorise our We are committed to respecting the framework, we ensure that we identify, suppliers, redening what we categorise human rights of our employees and assess and mitigate against potential as a material supplier to our business.
those within the communities in which risks which could affect the growth of This new denition includes all those we work.
We published our first human our business.
suppliers with whom we spend over rights policy in 2014.
We support For more information on our principal corporate risks 1m as well as those who have a the principles as set out in the UN see pages 5054 potential risk based on our 10 identied Declaration of Human Rights and impact areas, which include the products the International Labour Organisations Our suppliers or services they supply and where in the Core Labour Principles.
Following the We have a diverse supply chain, spending world they operate.
We use an external introduction of the UK Modern Slavery 1.8bn a year with 34,500 suppliers so online assessment tool to audit our Act we introduced our prevention of good procurement practices and the material suppliers and in 2016 we modern slavery policy.
We have set out purchasing decisions we make have audited 51% of these suppliers the detail, governance approach and a direct impact on our business 2015: 31%.
In addition to this our due steps taken in 2016 in our Modern performance.
Through our policies and diligence toolkit was developed and will Slavery Statement.
processes we can ensure the effective be rolled out in 2017 initially to all new See www.
com about-us management of supply chain risks, work suppliers and then our existing ones.
 with suppliers to ensure we adapt to the The toolkit assesses their labour needs of our clients, and procure goods practices, fair business practices, and services cost-effectively.
adherence to the Modern Slavery Act, environmental performance and data protection.
If a suppliers response 2% DECREASE IN CARBON FOOTPRINT 51% MATERIAL SUPPLIERS AUDITED
