61 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED Community investment Measuring our impact The strategic report was approved by programmes Tracking and reporting our community the Board on 1 March 2017 and signed We add value to our wider communities activity is key to demonstrating the impact on behalf of the Board: in a number of ways, as a major employer of our programmes and ensuring we are Andy Parker contributing to the wider economy, achieving our programme aims.
We use Chief Executive creating jobs, using local suppliers and London Benchmarking methodology to Nick Greatorex through the services we deliver.
We also measure the value of our programmes Group Finance Director invest in the local communities through financial, in-kind, and time given.
1 March 2017 our community programmes, ensuring In 2016, we estimate that our community that these communities benefit both investment was 2.0m, based on data socially and economically.
collection from nearly half of the Group.
In 2017, we will continue to develop our Our community programmes are aligned data gathering process to increase visibility to our business activities.
In 2016, we of activity across the Group.
concentrated our support on working with young people to develop their employability skills.
We encourage our employees to get involved in our programmes, sharing their expertise and developing their skills through our volunteering programme, whilst at the same time building connections with their local communities.
Group-wide corporate charity partnership Since 2014, we have had a Group-wide charity partnership with The Princes Trust, raising 853k to end of February 2016.
Alongside support of our charity partner, we actively encourage employees to give regularly on an individual basis to the causes they care about, with employees donating over 403k via their payroll to 388 charities in 2016.
We also have a matched funding scheme supporting our employees own fundraising efforts, giving another 25k to charitable causes.
853k RAISED THROUGH OUR PARTNERSHIP WITH THE PRINCES TRUST 8% REDUCTION IN ENERGY USAGE IN 2016
