Corporate Social Responsibility Report OUR AIMS development of people and systems in our customer At Card Factory we are committed to delivering services team.
All members of the customer services excellent value and quality products to our customers team are working to achieve NVQs in customer the lifeblood of our business.
We understand the service and new software is being used for tracking importance of showing our customers that we take our all customer queries, making sure we address them corporate and social responsibility CSR' seriously.
and learn from customer feedback: and finishing first for both value for money and low Our aim is to embed CSR within our culture, to use it prices in the OC&C Retail Proposition Index 2015. to guide management and employee behaviour and to have clear responsibility and accountability for our Development of our customer proposition continues CSR strategy.
to underpin our position as the UKs leading specialist greeting card retailer a position we intend to keep.
We do not have a separate CSR function as it is intrinsically important in every role.
The Board has MANUFACTURING AND SOURCING overall responsibility for our CSR policies and how we We are proud that the majority of cards sold in our manage and monitor performance.
stores are designed and manufactured by us in Yorkshire in the UK.
The balance of cards and other Our CSR activity focuses on the following key topics: products are sourced from a broad and growing Customers supplier base throughout the UK, Europe and the Far East, principally China.
Manufacturing and Sourcing Environment Our supplier factory auditing programme gives us reasonable assurance that we are trading with suppliers Health and Safety that operate in a manner that conforms to applicable Employees laws and that systems and controls are in place to Community mitigate risk.
These audits are undertaken using thirdparty specialists with a consistent audit programme CUSTOMERS inplace to allow us to ensure suppliers are Our business is built on providing great products, correctlyassessed.
service and value to our customers.
All suppliers outside the EU where purchases exceed Key achievements during the year were: 50,000 per annum have combined technical and ethical audits in place, commissioned by the Group Card Factorys transactional website and undertaken by recognised third parties.
co. uk was relaunched with a more suppliers have either an assessed rating in excess of responsive platform and now offers a wide selection 85%, or where below this a detailed corrective action of products including personalised cards and gifts, plan is in place for non-material issues to allow trade giving customers more choice and an enhanced to continue.
When issues are either material or not browsing experience across all devices: resolved within 3 months we cease trading with a continued redesign of existing card ranges and asupplier.
launch of new ranges, both everyday and seasonal, As part of the Groups commitment to developing its supported by further investment in our design team.
supplier audit programme, more detailed dedicated This ensures our customers continue to have a great ethical audits of suppliers have begun taking place and choice of products: are being prioritised by the value of annual purchases introduction of new non-card product ranges across by the Group.
our store network, increasing customer choice and refreshing and diversifying our range: We have been a member of Sedex, a large and recognised membership organisation which shares continued investment in new fixtures and fittings ethical trade data with members, since 2013 and we across our store network enabling us to better actively encourage our current or prospective suppliers showcase some of our new and existing products to to join this organisation, if not already members.
customers: roll out of our investment in LED lighting across the The audits we commission and the information provided store network, enhancing customer experience through our Sedex membership helps us to monitor instore: human rights issues through our supply chain and is further supported with periodic factory visits by our implementation of responses to the Tell Card sourcing team.
Our dedicated ethical audit programme Factory surveys we encourage our customers will further supplement this work.
to complete: 24 24 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra ate teg giic R c Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s We work with our suppliers to ensure that our products We continue to educate our staff to maximise the level are produced to all applicable standards, appropriate of waste that can be recycled and minimise the number product safety testing takes place, and associated of collections required to reduce the associated carbon labelling is undertaken.
We ask all our suppliers to sign footprint of waste collection and movement and to our supplier compliance manual before trading minimise store waste sent to landfill.
commences, and we have continued to strengthen our Our distribution centres in Wakefield operate a quality assurance and inspection operations, utilising recycling programme to ensure all plastic and third-party partners in the Far East to complement our cardboard materials are bailed on site and removed own team.
In our UK manufacturing operations, appropriate due Packaging diligence is undertaken to ensure, so far as practicable, We use a third-party consultancy to ensure we meet the that we comply with the EU Timber Regulations EUTR'.
requirements of the UK Packaging Waste Regulations We have also continued to develop the level of controls and purchase the appropriate level of packaging over paper-based materials within our products, sourced recovery notes PRNs'.
from the Far East, to replicate the level of due diligence we undertake within our own manufacturing facilities The majority of our products offered for sale are with those of third-party suppliers.
designed in-house which affords us the opportunity to reduce packaging waste for both products and During 2015, both our main trading subsidiary, transit packaging.
We continually seek to improve this, Sportswift Limited which trades as Card Factory, and this also helps us to reduce container and road and our UK manufacturing operation, Printcraft transport costs.
This will assist in providing a more robust and simplified supply chain Energy over which to comply, so far as practicable, with the We analyse electricity usage across our store portfolio EUTR and demonstrating the transparency we have to better understand how we can reduce the over our sourcing of paper-based materials from consumption of electricity, supplemented by an energy sustainable sources.
audit carried out under ESOS see below.
We continue to focus on: We are committed to working with our key third-party suppliers to ensure that products on sale in our stores Installation of smart meters are manufactured using FSC certified material.
Our This year we have continued to install smart meters into long-term goal is that, so far as possible, all paperour existing and new stores to allow us to measure based products sold in our stores are produced using electricity usage on a half-hourly basis.
This enables us FSC certified material by 2020, actively developing and to reduce electricity usage by: promoting a policy to maximise the use of wood fibres tackling behaviour in stores, for example, monitoring from forestry operations certified by the FSC within our unnecessary use of air conditioning and heating or supply chain.
when lights are left on in stores after they have closed: In our day-to-day operations we also seek to ensure identifying areas which use electricity within stores that all paper and paper board materials classified as and producing plans to target areas of excess usage.
waste are separated and recycled.
For example, there may be legacy equipment we inherit when we open a store that is not fit for our ENVIRONMENT purposes or which is located in parts of a store that We recognise our operations impact the environment no longer need it: and and the policies we adopt are important to our business performing electrical audits to assess heavy and its stakeholders.
Our objective is to reduce our consumption stores and consider where savings can impact on the environment, from material sourcing to be made, with close attention to lighting and heating customer use and disposal, across the following installations in the back-of-house areas.
key topics: Waste recycling Installation of LED lighting We recognise the impact waste generated from our During the year, we have retro-fitted energy-efficient activities has on the communities we operate in.
We LED lighting in 70 of our pre-existing stores and proactively look to reduce the level of waste generated installed LED lighting in all of the 64 stores we have and maximise the proportion of waste that is recycled.
fitted out FY15: 70 stores in total.
In the 70 existing stores, for which we have comparative data, we have reduced electricity usage by an average of 43%.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued In addition to the cost efficiency of LED lighting, the gas reporting guidance, Environmental Reporting customer experience in store is enhanced given the Guidelines ref.
PB 13944, issued by the Department nature of the lighting and the reduction in heat emitted.
for Environment Food and Rural Affairs in June 2013.
Further details of the methodology applied in Fuel efficiency calculating these emissions can be found on We invest to improve fuel efficiency and reduce the Card Factorys investor website number of miles travelled as part of our commitment to www.
HEALTH AND SAFETY We operate a fleet of company cars and vans in The health and safety of all our employees, customers, which we aim to include, as far as practicable, more contractors, visitors and members of the public is of fuel-efficient vehicles and for which we monitor paramount importance to the Group.
All employees are responsible for ensuring that stores With our third-party distribution partners, we have and other working environments are safe and operated actively taken steps to reduce miles travelled for store without significant risk.
Health and safety is deliveries from our national distribution centre in incorporated into our day-to-day practices and we Wakefield.
By working in partnership with our carriers support this through training programmes.
and making changes to our business processes, we are now sorting a large proportion of our deliveries Whilst the Board has ultimate responsibility for health destined for the northern parts of the United Kingdom and safety, it is managed on a day-to-day basis by and Scotland so that they are processed through our Compliance and Safety team, who liaise with line northern distribution hubs.
managers in all parts of the business to ensure compliance with our policies and that all staff ESOS receiveappropriate training, tailored to support The Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme or ESOS is theirspecific roles.
new EU legislation that has introduced a mandatory programme of energy audits for some businesses.
The Compliance and Safety team also analyses trends With the support of external consultants, we carried and takes a pro-active approach to managing health out the initial audit within the required time frame.
The audit and accompanying reports assessed the Compliance and Safety meetings are held regularly energy performance of our operations and made throughout the year and are attended by members recommendations for cost efficient energy efficiency of the senior management team, as well as by savings.
The recommendations will supplement the representatives from key operational teams.
The measures we already take to assess and reduce overriding objective of the decisions taken at these energy consumption.
meetings is to make our stores and workplaces safe Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions places for customers, employees and visitors alike.
Greenhouse Gas Statement for the Group Additional training has been a focus during the year, GHG emissions for the Group for the year ended aimed at reinforcing basic health and safety practices 31 January 2016, in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent which, in turn, has improved our visibility of near misses tCO e, were: 2 and enabled us to take further mitigation measures.
Source tCO e % 2 This year the Group has invested further in: Fuel combustion stationary 95 0.4% transport management training has been Fuel combustion mobile 1,230 5.3% delivered to drivers to improve driver safety and Fugitive emissions F-gas 157 0.7% legal compliance, and members of the Compliance Purchased electricity 21,515 93.6% and Safety team have received formal transport TOTAL 22,997 management qualifications from the Road Haulage Association, acquiring the Certificate of Professional Annual comparison and emissions intensity Competence for Transport Managers Road Haulage : and tCO e 2014-15 2015-16 change 2 mechanical aids software has been installed to Total emissions 23,970 22,997 -4% support the operation of forklift trucks in our Emissions intensity 67.8 60.3 -11% distribution centre and provide management expressed in tCO e per m turnover 2 information to enable better planning of safety improvements.
Methodology and emission factors These emissions were calculated using the The Board receives regular reports and updates on methodology set out in the updated greenhouse health and safety matters throughout the Group including details of any incidents and remedial actions.
26 26 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra ate teg giic R c Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s EMPLOYEES boards communicating key operational messages to Card Factorys employees are critical to its success.
We all stores via our intranet: employ more than 7,000 FY15: 6,500 permanent staff.
regional and area managers regular planning and During the important Christmas trading period this review meetings for all of the key trading periods number increased to more than 13,000 FY15: 12,000 with subsequent cascading of key messages to when taking into account temporary seasonal workers.
store employees: store manager visits to head office to discuss and The commitment of our employees is fundamental to our review Card Factorys retail proposition: growth and enables us to consistently deliver great value and service to our customers.
We want our employees Card FACTually, a periodic newsletter which contains to feel valued and to see themselves as part of the a message from the CEO and takes a more lightCard Factory family.
Highly engaged and well trained hearted look at the business.
It includes details of the employees contribute significantly more to the Group.
community and charity events we are involved in and In supporting this the Group has, during the last year: aims to celebrate and share achievements and successes by employees: introduced an all employee save as you earn SAYE' share scheme enabling eligible employees Board and senior management team members tosave to buy shares in the Company at a regularly visit stores to assess the retail proposition discountedrate: and get feedback from employees and customers, particularly during key trading periods: and launched a pilot of a new learning management system SPARK' that can deliver e-learning modules visits to our Mock Shop, a representative Card directly to all our stores and across the Group, Factory store at our head office which reflects the supporting employee development and allowing us layout of a typical Card Factory store as it progresses to track completion rates for specific modules: through each trading season.
This provides a visual representation of what we aim to achieve in our invested in additional training for head office and stores and also gives employees the opportunity to distribution centre employees: and provide feedback on our retail proposition.
hosted Summer and Christmas social events for its employees.
COMMUNITY We recognise the importance of being responsible We fully support the development and progression of members of the communities in which we work.
We our employees throughout the business.
There are look to support charitable causes that can benefit from many examples of employees who, initially joining us as our growth.
retail assistants in stores, have now progressed to store manager or roles at head office which benefit from their Card Factory is proud to have been supporting shop floor and customer facing know-how.
Employees and customers at Card Factory take part in multiple We are an equal opportunities employer: our policy is to fundraising events, ranging from loose change recruit, develop, promote, support and retain skilled and donations to the annual National Bear Raffle in our motivated people regardless of disability, race, religion stores, as well as the sale of Macmillan Christmas cards.
or belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender identification, For a number of years, a group of employees from marital status or age.
across our business have also competed in the Great North Run attracting sponsorship from colleagues, At the end of the financial period the percentage friends and relatives.
breakdown of male and female employees across the Group was as follows: To date we have raised nearly 4 million and we intend to continue this successful partnership with Macmillan, % Male % Female FY16 FY15 FY16 FY15 whose valuable work helps to ensure that no one faces cancer alone.
Board 83 83 17 17 Senior management team 89 89 11 11 In addition to the money we raise for Macmillan, we All employees 20 18 80 82 are currently considering which charitable causes will benefit from the profits we generate from the sale of plastic carrier bags in England, following the We regularly communicate with our employees in a introduction of the 5p carrier bag charge in October variety of ways including: 2015.
We will provide an update on this in next years weekly retail news bulletins, providing operational Annual Report.
instructions to all of our stores on matters including products, layouts and displays: online message Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 27 2 28 8 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra ate teg giic R c Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s Card Factory is proud to have been supporting Macmillan Cancer Support since 2006 TOTAL RAISED TO DATE: 3,985,683 An incredible partnership!
Macmillan Cancer Support thanks the staff and customers of Card Factory for their incredible fundraising activities which continue to help us ensure that no one faces cancer alone.
Sharon Cottam Partnership Manager, Macmillan Cancer Support Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29 29
