Report of the Sustainability Committee Dear Shareholder, External reporting I am pleased to present the Sustainability Committees report for the The Sustainability Committee reviewed the Chief Sustainability Officers yearended 31 December 2016. presentation to the United Nations in Geneva in October 2016, having been invited to showcase our commercial case for sustainability investment, the Sustainability is a core strategic commitment embedded within our evidence of its achievements and its potential contribution to the UNs operational delivery, employee values and reputational management 2030 Sustainable Development Goals.
The presentation was very well underpinned by our published 2020 Sustainability Strategy, public received, it showed how sustainability was absolutely integrated into disclosures and  Key Performance Indicators.
core strategy, business operations and corporate reporting, producing Our Sustainability 2020 Strategy consists of six Positive Outcomes demonstrable and audited financial outcomes.
The Committee also whichtarget a balanced set of strategic objectives across economic, keep under review our sector leading reporting on sustainability with environmental and social responsibility and include building a successful headline performance indicators which remained key to client delivery, business, leading the way in our sector, enabling low-carbon economies, internal engagement and wider stakeholder confidence in sustainable protecting the environment, supporting sustainable communities and responsible business.
providing better prospects for our people.
We were also delighted to have been highly commended in the 2016 The Board Sustainability Committee was established as a principle in 2014 Building Public Trust Award for the FTSE 250 Sustainability Reporting and commenced its work in 2015, aiming to oversee the development and category.
implementation of the Groups sustainability strategy, values and policies, See also pages 26 to 29 Continuing to embed sustainability.
by engaging with key internal and external stakeholders on prime sustainability themes.
The Board receives monthly reports on progress, priorities, targets and challenges on topical sustainability issues, with the Sustainability strategy refresh and stakeholder Sustainability Committee focusing on the Groups wider strategy, its materiality survey relevance to sector contexts, and legislation or regulations that might affect The Committee reviewed and approved the outcome from an extensive the Group or our stakeholders.
The Committee also approves external review of future focus areas for sustainability investment across the Group.
sustainability advisor appointments and reviews the Groups Annual This had been conducted throughout the second half of 2016, seeking Sustainability Report prior to its publication, including the annual inputs from clients, external partner organisations, specialist advisers, management report of the Groups sustainability auditors.
The proposed strategy is based on structured programmes which aim to achieve a better business, better Membership and attendance at meetings held communities and a better environment, building on the Sustainability 2020 during the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategys achievements to date and aligning to the UNs Sustainable Development Goals where appropriate.
New areas to be incorporated will Meeting attendance Meeting attendance address dynamic developments in areas such as ethical sourcing, climate 2016 2015 change and human rights to demonstrate the client alignment, competitive Eligible Eligible Appointed advantage and internal engagement generated by the Groups Member Attended to attend Attended to attend sustainability investments and achievements.
Ceri Powell 02.04.14 3 3 4 4 Keith Cochrane 02.07.15 3 3 3 3 Sustainability Moments Andrew Dougal 03.10.11 3 3 4 4 Philip Green 01.06.11 3 3 4 4 The Committee reviewed Sustainability Moments during 2016, which Alison Horner 01.12.13 3 3 3 4 offered an opportunity to focus on examples of our employees most inspiring sustainability behaviour and values.
Specific initiatives included Richard Howson 10.12.09 3 3 4 4 awork placement in Canada for a graduate from the First Nations Natural The Chief Sustainability Officer also attends the Committees meetings.
Resources Youth Employment Ranger Programme and the employment TheCommittees terms of reference are available at www.
com of a person with special needs through a focused internship programme or on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committees main areas for young people with disabilities.
The Committee also reviewed the of focus during 2016 are summarised below.
positive and diverse impacts which continue to be achieved through our Employee Nomination Fund, supporting 160 charities and community organisations through two annual funding rounds across our international Community engagement, climate change, business regions.
carbon reduction and environmental protection The Committees review of our strategic approaches included an Committee annual evaluation assessment ofour prime focus on community engagement around our The Committee reviewed its performance for 2016, as part of the overall projects and contracts, supported by significant employee volunteering, Board evaluation process, confirming that it had continued to provide taking detailedinput from Dame Julia Cleverdon the Groups longanexcellent forum that stimulated good debate and focus around our standing external adviser on community issues and our sustainability sustainability strategy and delivery.
Future priorities highlighted by the strategy.
Further analysis was conducted into the extensive relationship evaluation included continued focus on our communication with networks and positive impacts that arose as a result, together with the stakeholders, particularly in light of its post-2020 sustainability strategy, business benefitsof this investment and scope for strengthening our and for Non-Executive Directors to review examples of sustainability in relationships withkey stakeholders.
action during their contract visits.
In addition during 2017, the Committee The Committee also reviewed key carbon reduction themes and activities plans to assess the process, output, reporting and quality from the Groups across the built environment, taking detailed input from Julie Hirigoyen Sustainability Auditors.
It will continue to focus on responsible reporting Chief Executive Officer of the UK Green Building Council and the Groups and development of the sustainability strategy, further integrating it with external adviser on environmental issues.
In light of an increased focus on theGroups wider corporate strategy.
climate change and associated issues, following the Paris 2015 agreements, the Committee reviewed our scope to address emerging areas such as the establishment of science-based targets, tracking Scope 3 carbon emissions and tackling embodied carbon.
For both areas of review, it was recognised that these and other strategic sustainability investments were well managed under the Groups robust existing processes, but would also be extensively revisited under the Ceri Powell forthcoming review of future sustainability strategy.
In addition, our Chairman best-in-class sustainability reporting to Global Reporting Initiative G4 1 March 2017 standards, were recognised as a key strength.
60 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
