Continuing to embed sustainability Contributing to the global agenda Sustainability is a core strategic In 2015, the United Nations UNs 194 member countries adopted a unified business model capability pages future development programme the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals SDGs and Carillion is uniquely positioned to help drive this common global agenda.
Our stakeholders unanimously 98% agreed in 24 and 25, making Carillion a last years materiality assessment that Carillion must align its sustainability objectives with the SDGs.
Our leadership was key to presenting our better company to work for, to do sustainability business case at the UNs Geneva Headquarters in October 2016.
We showed the UNs Conference on Trade and Development how we business with and to invest in.
were publishing business-critical performance measures beyond financial metrics to support the SDGs and International Standards for Accounting Veried through independent Reporting.
external assessment, Carillions Ambitious plans like the UNs Sustainable commitment to create a better Development Goals can be achieved only by working in close partnerships in fact, the 17th business, better communities and goal of that overarching programme.
a better environment has made Ceri Powell, Chairman, Sustainability Committee, Carillion Read more about our United Nations presentation at: it an established, differentiated https: .
com wp-content uploads 2016 10 --- sustainability leader across all its .
Our sustainability strategy Read more in our Sustainability Report 2016: and 2016 highlights www.
com sustainability2016 published in April 2017 Our Sustainability 2020 programme is a fundamental part of Carillions corporate strategy and seeks to build a Better Business, Competitive business capability create a Better Environment and support Better Communities encapsulating our mission to Make Tomorrow a Better Place.
Carillions sustainable, responsible business practices create competitive business capabilities and manage our key risks.
Our six Positive Outcomes explain the value we create through these Three Betters and Bureau Veritas independently verifies our Our Sustainability 2020 Strategy delivers six Positive Outcomes, measured achievements.
through  key performance indicators of economic, environmental and social stakeholder value.
The operational examples in this report of how we are creating a better business, better communities Better business and a better environment show how we build trust, govern ethically, create Building Leading the way lasting positive community legacies and build strong customer and supplier partnerships.
a successful withour customers business and suppliers Sustainable, responsible business drives our corporate governance policies and processes, as well as underpinning external and internal engagement with our diverse range of stakeholders.
Strong community Better communities partnerships and inspirational commitments from our people govern our decision-making and values, create significant reputational advantage and Better prospects Supporting lead to long-term, profitable growth.
for our people sustainable communities Safety and investing in our people will always Better environment take precedence, but sustainable operations are business-critical for long-term, profitable growth.
Enabling low carbon Protecting the Creating and supporting an innovative, efficient economies environment built environment is a key competitive differentiator, demonstrating that we are a Highlights from 2016s sustainability achievements include trusted partner capable of delivering our Climate Change leader for a third successive year Carbon customers needs and ambitions.
Disclosure Project Re-accredited as a FTSE4Good company Richard Howson, Chief Executive, Carillion UN Global Compact Signatory Corporate Social Responsibility CSR winner at Arabia CSR Awards Dubai Chamber CSR Label for a third successive year Highly Commended in PwCs Building Public Trust Awards for Sustainability Reporting The Times Top 50 Employer for Women Family Support Award Working Mums and Dads networks Top UK Employer Awards 26 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | Safe work with better health and wellbeing 1,100th 55% Safety is our absolute priority and the Occupational Health and Safety Achieved our 1,100th Ready external spend 952m with Standard OHSAS 18001 has been embedded across all our operations, for Work placement and 500th local suppliers 2015: 58% together with campaigns for zero accidents or ill-health Target Zero.
We job outcome achieved a 15 per cent reduction in falls from height one of our highest 37% risk categories and our proactive Health Like Safety programmes 57% reduction in UK operational included greater support to remove the stigma around mental health.
reduction in All Accident water use since 2012 Our snow-plough driving simulators in Canada and our Middle East Permit Frequency Rate AAFR 2015: 24% to Drive programme also helped us to achieve 70 per cent fewer road 2015: 51% traffic collisions.
34% 36.1 million reduction in our carbon net profit contribution from footprint since 2011 2015: 31% sustainable behaviours and actions 2015: 33.8m 94% of waste diverted from landfill 1.7 million 2015: 94% donated to charities and community causes cash and 30% in kind 2015: 1.9m of employees volunteered in communities 2015: 18% Winner Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Governance Facilities Management Award Sustainability is a crucial Board-level commitment, and Ceri Powell, aformer member of the UN Sustainable Energy for All Advisory Board, chairs our Board Sustainability Committee read more on page 60.
Each Skills development and an inclusive, Carillion contract and project team delivers sustainability plans and the welcomeworkplace Chief Sustainability Officer CSO briefs the Board and the Executive Leadership Team monthly on targets and achievements.
Our external Our programmes for diversity and inclusion improve employee advisers, Dame Julia Cleverdon DCVO, CBE BITC Vice President and Julie engagement and retention, avoid discrimination and allow access to a Hirigoyen UK Green Building Council Chief Executive, provide wider talent pool.
Our unconscious bias training tackles diversity in independent advice and challenge.
recruitment, and our award-winning affinity networks all started by our employees have generated new thinking, including the launch of Connect Read more about governance through our Board Sustainability our Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender network.
We tackle Committee on page 60 industry-wide challenges of lower numbers of qualified and experienced female recruits through structured messaging, apprenticeships, our Gender Pathways programme and specific initiatives such as our corporate leadership of YourLife promoting STEM Science, Technology, Better business Engineering and Mathematics studies.
Currently, 18 per cent of our Sustainability makes us a better business and supports sustainable, leadership population are female 29 per cent on the Board, having made profitable growth by reducing risk and engaging our people.
50 female leadership appointments during 2016 and our female graduate numbers increased from 12 per cent to 36 per cent.
Al Futtaim Carillion, our Carillion is the only infrastructure services contractor to publish a verified UAE joint venture business, was awarded 4 stars in the Taqdeer awards for contribution to operating profit from sustainable behaviours and activities, labour relations.
In Canada, we remain a Canadian Council for Aboriginal achieved through initiatives such as innovation, waste reduction, process Business Bronze-certified company and include mandatory awareness improvement and minimising travel.
We are the first company in our sector sessions for our employees.
to achieve the Investing in Integrity charter mark across our international operations, we remain accredited in the FTSE4Good Index and committed Developing our own people as our future talent is at the heart of making to the UN Global Compacts Universal Principles for Human Rights in 2016. us a Better Business and we will extend our leadership development programmes further in 2017.
Programmes like Emerging Leaders in Customer service and innovation Building, the Futures Network and Leadership Pathways help us find current and future leaders from among our people.
Our sustainability strategy drives our service delivery and supports our customers sustainability ambitions.
We aim for Gold standard compliance with the Considerate Constructor scheme on every contract, with our Increasing diversity and inclusion is one of our audited projects in the top 10 per cent of all UK contracts and an industryindustrys key challenges, but weve made leading score of 40.3 points in 2016 industry average 35.6. excellent progress through our people Using new water-saving technology, enhanced maintenance procedures unlocking potential, making people feel welcome and usage monitoring, we helped Centrica to achieve a 10 per cent and creating a workplace culture that allows reduction in water consumption, making them one of only 24 companies on the Carbon Disclosure Project CDPs Water Management A-List.
In everyone to give of their best.
Its simply the Canada, our team helped the Royal Ottawa Healthcare Group to achieve right thing to do.
Silver standard and a Top 5 place on the Ontario Hospital Associations Green Hospital Scorecard.
We are also using technology and innovation Janet Dawson, Group HR Director to support sustainable, dynamic customer service, such as drones to help design and deliver construction projects, and smart building technology to monitor lighting, heating and waste management.
Other trials now include our pilot Internet of Things IOT, a project for Remote Legionella Monitoring, 3D spare part printing and our new Manchester Energy Operations Centre that reports on over 50,000 data and control points in real time.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 Continuing to embed sustainability continued Working with our supply chain partners Conserving resources Despite the challenges of rising material and labour costs and of operating Innovations across our contracts drive responsible consumption, in competitive market sectors, ethical and sustainable procurement cut waste to an irreducible minimum and optimise our use of recycled underpins the way we deliver our contracts and projects.
A key challenge in diverting waste from landfill includes wholly committed to generating regional economic growth and limitations in local recycling infrastructure, particularly in the Middle East, development, with 55 per cent 2015: 58 per cent of our external but we remain committed to achieving an effective zero waste to landfill expenditure with local suppliers and Small or Medium-sized Enterprises across our operations.
We provide prompt and fair supplier payments through our Early We maximise recycled content through our whole lifecycle approach for Payment Facility, which 85 per cent of our suppliers would recommend to five key materials in the UK and four in the Middle East, while Canada is also others.
We continue to help fund and share best practice with the reviewing the replacement of palm oil in its food services contracts.
We industrys Supply Chain Sustainability School, with over 1,000 of our conserve water as a prime Middle East resource, with innovations like suppliers as members.
Having achieved the Sustainable Procurement water recycling for dust suppression, waterless urinals and group water Taskforce Flexible Framework Level 5, we are now assessing the adoption dispensers to eliminate individual water bottles.
of the new ISO 20400 Sustainable Procurement Standard from 2017.
Modern slavery was a key stakeholder concern last year, reflecting an increasing focus on this issue after the introduction of the UK Modern 32,000 Slavery Act.
Our annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, available through our corporate website, explains how we seek to ensure Scrap metal recycling in Oman is saving Carillion Alawi that our businesses and our supply chain partners comply with the Act.
32,000 a month Our Modern Slavery Action Group develops integrated policy guidance, and we have also asked suppliers to commit to our ethical sourcing and Protecting the environment labour standards charters.
We have extended our Dont Walk By safety focus to cover wider issues such as fuel spillages, waste and generator usage, driving environmental Better environment accountability on all our projects.
Working extensively with UK Wildlife Trusts, we were also the UK Freshwater Habitats Trusts first corporate We tackle climate change, conserve resources and protect the partner protecting pond, lake and watercourse biodiversity.
Bypass road project team won the Construction Industry Research and All of our contracts are certified to ISO 14001 Environmental Management Information Association CIRIA 2016 Big Biodiversity Challenge, using the Standards, delivered through pollution prevention, biodiversity work site as a classroom, with 230 hours of volunteer time.
We also development and waste and water reduction plans.
We have also achieved partnered with Natural England to introduce new night-working  environmental standards across more than methodology to protect badgers and great-crested newts.
The A1 Leeming 200 infrastructure projects, such as the Building Research Establishment to Barton project team won the 2016 Green Apple Award for Environmental Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM and the Leadership in Best Practice and Green World Ambassador status.
In Canada, our remote Energy and Environmental Design LEED Gold standards.
Our Building site accommodation business Outland has planted over 1.5 billion trees Information Modelling BIM capabilities continue to meet government since 1985, including nearly 60 million last year alone.
mandates and deliver  assets with optimal resource efficiency during construction and throughout their operational lifecycle.
Better communities Acting on climate change Carillion is a community company, engaging young people, community groups, charities and disadvantaged people to improve We reduced our carbon footprint by 34 per cent in 2016, continuing to be social mobility and to create lasting positive legacies.
a Climate Change Leader in the Carbon Disclosure Projects CDP Global Index for a third successive year.
Accredited under the Certified Emissions Our people construct, serve and support tens of thousands of buildings Measurement and Reduction Scheme CEMARS for a sixth successive and infrastructure assets, used by millions of people, making our year, the CEMARS governing body used Carillion as a 2016 best-practice community engagement a fundamental business capability.
Our case study for emissions reduction.
We were the sole contractor independent research in 2015 showed unanimous agreement 75% that sponsoring UK Green Building Councils UKGBC 2015 and 2016 positive community engagement made businesses more successful, Embodied Carbon cross-industry collaboration projects, and we also with 91 per cent seeing benefits for volunteers on both sides of these supported the Green Construction Boards PAS 2080 Carbon Standard partnerships.
Our Chief Executive, Richard Howson, has chaired Business published in October 2016 for road and rail infrastructure low-carbon in the Communitys BITC national Community Leadership Team since delivery.
Focused on developing energy from renewable sources, we also 2013, and our bespoke Community Needs Plans make deep, long-term worked with clients on projects that included photovoltaic panels on seven commitments to the specific needs and priorities of local communities.
schools, a biomass boiler for a city council and the initial engineering phase for a combined wind turbine, battery storage and electric vehicle charging system.
2016 2015 Emissions from CO e tonnes CO e tonnes 2 2 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 145,037 130,417 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Scope 2 19,252 19,875 Transport, paper and others including electricity, gas WTT and electricity WTT Scope 3 16,594 15,936 Chosen intensity metric: Al Futtaim Emissions tonnes per million Carillions Volunteering Leave Policy was of revenue 34.7 36.2 named CSR Initiative of the Year at the 2016 Construction Week Awards 28 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | Supporting young people Our future sustainability Engineering skills shortages pose a key risk to the future sustainability of As we move towards 2020, amongst historic change and highly our industry talent pipeline, so we proactively invest in school careers dynamic environments, we reviewed our future strategy and education and on-the-job career support for young people.
Our strategic consulted with our key stakeholders.
partnerships with the Institution of Civil Engineers Knowledge Hub and Our 2016 Materiality Review featured online surveys and extended client YourLife stimulate interest in our industry and its key skills.
We are also interviews with 1,100 external and internal stakeholders, including committed to the National Literacy Pledge, and our employee volunteering employees, customers, charities, sustainability organisations, regulators reached over 49,000 students in 2016.
Approaching graduate recruitment and investors.
Feedback on 43 key sustainability issues and the UN differently in 2016, we focused on behaviours instead of experience or Sustainable Development Goals showed that the issues mattering most qualifications, resulting in 70 applicants with the highest degree of gender to them included recruitment and retention, health, wellbeing and safety, and ethnic diversity to date.
customer satisfaction, eliminating bribery and corruption, investing in We remain the sector leader in apprenticeships, with over 1,700 worker welfare, reducing waste and preventing pollution.
There was placements in 2016 across a range of skill sets, including commercial, universal agreement on the impact of Carillions Three Betters approach civilengineering and supply chain.
We continue to work with the UK and the need to align with the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Government and other businesses on apprenticeship frameworks and standards, and we now have a cohort of 15 apprentices on a four-year As many of our Sustainability 2020 targets have been, or are close to course with Carillion Asset Maintenance fabric, electrical engineering and being, achieved, we will refocus our strategy to ensure we continue to meet plumbing to invest further in the resilience and readiness of our mobile fresh priorities in human rights, ethical sourcing, environmental protection engineering business.
There is a significant opportunity to address new challenges, review fresh targets and to maintain the progress made in the past 17 years with sustainability.
Degree apprenticeships are ideal for people who perhaps didnt go to university because that A better future and the Sustainable wasnt right for them at the time, or who want Development Goals another way into a strong professional role As we look to the future of responsible business, we will aim to without the student debt.
demonstrate strong contributions to at least nine of the UNs 17 Goals, making a clear case for customers, investors, governments and the public Joe Guy, Head of Learning and Talent, Carillion to expressly demand that more companies prove how they are making sustainability critical to their reporting cycles and to the future of their business.
We will focus on investing further in careers education and sustainable communities to drive regional economic growth.
We will target even more responsible consumption of materials, setting a Science-Based carbon target and investing in net positive biodiversity improvement programmes.
Winner We will further develop our Health, Safety and Wellbeing programmes, improving diversity and continuing to lead the way in our industry as we Education Partner of the Year, create and maintain international infrastructure.
BITC Northern Ireland Read more about the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals at: https: .
org ?menu 1300 Creating employment We remove barriers to employment for potentially disadvantaged people, because this introduces talent into our business that might otherwise be overlooked.
Our support for BITCs Ready for Work programme entered its ninth year, with 120 work placements for ex-offenders, people at risk of homelessness and ex-military service personnel.
Converting work placements into permanent employment is key, and 58 per cent of those completing their placements secured jobs in 2016, well above the national average and a key contribution to the milestone of providing over 500 jobs to date through Ready for Work.
Working directly with institutions like prisons is also essential having already employed two serving prisoners in 2015, Carillion Rail Resourcing ran a Careers Fair at HMP Springhill in 2016, and has now launched a pilot scheme to offer 10 offenders a route to employment in 2017.
On the M6 Smart Motorways Programme, our Carillion Kier Joint Venture team have also been working closely with HAWK and Stoke Heath prison on a day-release programme.
Nationwide Resettlement Award for helping former military people into work Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29
