STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS UPDATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Responsible Business Update OUR FOCUS ON BEING A RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS MEANS: Prioritising safety Operating ethically Helping customers save time and money Helping those in need Being a responsible employer Reducing carbon emissions This approach not only helps us satisfy thechanging needs of our customers, but enables us to realise our goals to become atrusted corporate citizen, an employer of choice and a 21st century energy provider.
EXPLORE MORE ABOUT HOW WE ARE BEINGARESPONSIBLE BUSINESS AT CENTRICA.
COM RESPONSIBILITY 24 Prioritising safety Operating ethically We have a responsibility to keep our people We are committed to conducting andcustomers safe which is why safety remains our business in an ethical and our top priority.
compliant manner, ensuring we respect the rights and dignity ofallpeople.
In pursuit of the highest operational standards, we have created a new 35 customer incidents occurred Customer safety Ethics&Compliance function and an In 2016, we introduced improved Ethics & Compliance sub-committee 24% working practicesto reduce risk ofthe Centrica Executive Committee, for customers.
which ischaired by our Group Chief Executive.
This will enable us to ensure ethics and compliance are managed inthe right way across the business andembedded as anatural part ofhowwe do business.
To support this, we are defining a newcompany-wide Code of Conduct thatwillprovide a strong moral compassandbindus together in common pursuit ofour strategy and purpose.
Our Code willbe launched in2017, alongside a newset of supportingvalues.
We also uphold ethical, social andenvironmental standards in the productsand services we buy.
In 2016, we assessed 73 suppliers on these issues, resulting inan average Employee safety supplier sustainability riskscore of 57 Regrettably, one of our contractor lowrisk.
This is better than the multi- 1 engineers was involved in a road industry average of 42 medium risk accident that led to their death.
andis an improvement on our 2015 Twosignificant process safety events scoreof 54 low risk.
If suppliers receive also occurred and resulted in no amedium or high riskrating, we work serious injuries, up from one event with them to improveperformance.
The events related to the Modern Slavery Act uncontrolled release of gas.
We have As part of the UKs Modern Slavery Act, subsequently implemented more wehave taken action to assess risks robust inspections, maintenance relating to forced labour in our business routines and operating procedures.
We take the issue veryseriously and ourcommitment Total recordable injury frequency willbe published ina Modern Slavery rateimproved to 0.98 per 200,000 ActStatement in2017.
hours worked 11% Lost time injury frequency rate alsoimproved to 0.30 per 200,000 hoursworked 12% In 2017, our focus will continue on building safety capability across the business to keep our people and customers safe through leadership training and communication.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS UPDATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Helping customers save time and money We want to make our customers lives easier by improving our service and giving them greater control over their energy, while keeping bills as low as possible.
PROVIDING EXCELLENT CUSTOMER SERVICE Customer satisfaction We are focused on delivering an excellent 1 To measure customer satisfaction, weuse net promoter scores NPS.
service that makes our customers lives easier.
Over time, this will improve customer satisfaction and makeour customers want 2 In UK & Ireland Home, NPS improved In UK & Ireland Business, NPSincreased tostay with us for longer.
Towards this in UK Home, we have: 4 -16 Committed 50 million to advance 2015: -7 2015: -19 customer service during 201517.
Improved call scripts and increased In North America Home, NPS was In North America Business, training days by 24% since 2013.
NPSimproved 32 Enhanced homemove processes and 31 conducted pro-active re-assessments 2015: n a ofdirect debit payments.
2015: 20 Despite these improvements, challenges inresourcing were experienced as a resultof our business restructuring while collective switching put pressure on BUSINESS REVIEW British Gas was one of only two major operational systems.
British suppliers to cut prices three From customer accounts to times intwo years on its standard complaints, explore our service After tackling issues associated with tariff, leading to a performance in detail.
theimplementation of a new customer service system in UK Business, our bill READ MORE ON PAGES 36 TO 41 accuracy, call waiting times and speed of 14% resolution, now surpass prior performance.
cumulative reduction in household The 40million upgrade, which combined gasprices alongside energy bill morethan 100 outdated legacy systems savings foraverage dual fuel intoone, was extremely complex.
customers of  by Ofgem into theimpact of the transition to the new 175 ITsystem on business customers, and intotheroll-out of advanced meters for UK Home profit margin after tax certain categories of business customers, hasremained roughly the same wehaveagreed to pay 14 million in total overthe last five years inredress distributed across affected micro-business customers, the charity Money Advice Trust, which provides 5% abusiness debt line service to help customers in need, and to fund energy efficiency advice and related activities through the Carbon Trust.
In North America Home, we provided additional trainingfor call centre agents.
Wealso introduced a new call-routing system which enables calls from customers toreach agents with the right expertise, enhancing the resolution of queries.
Meanwhile, in Ireland, customer service levels improved and complaints decreased.
26 BEING CLEAR AND COMPETITIVE ONPRICING TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Investment in our Connected Home Energy bills can be a real worry for Customers want choice: they want business 201520 hard-pressed households.
Despite 83% controlandthey want to use less energy.
ofthe energy bill being made up of costs Our innovative products and services 500m wecannot fully control, such as wholesale canmake this a reality.
energy costs, distribution charges and social and environmental taxes, we are committed Connected Home hubs installed READ MORE ON PAGES 10 AND 11 tokeeping our prices competitive.
527,000 In addition to reducing energy prices seeleft, British Gas committed to freeze itsstandard tariff for the entire winter Percentage of customers with smart 2016 17 period through to August 2017. thermostats who feel more incontrol Inspite of increases in external costs, over their heating BritishGas has consistently offered one 4 ofthe cheapest standard energy deals 88% available over the last year, made possible bysignificantly reducing our own costs.
Smart meters delivered to homes Ourstandard tariff continues to be cheaper andbusinesses in the UK than 95% of similar contracts in the market.
In 2016, Bord Gis Energy also cut 3.9m household gasand electricity costs by 2.5%and 5% respectively, making it the Smart meters installed as a proportion onlysupplier inthe Republic of Ireland of the UKs total number of installations tohave reduced prices three times Amazon Echo Hive 5 sinceFebruary 2015.
Conveniently control Hives family ofproducts via Amazon Alexa Voice Service.
70% We continue to engage with the UK Government and regulators on securing amore affordable and stable energy futureby improving UK energy policy and competition.
We are also actively testing therole of Distributed Energy & Power fide&P in building smarter energy systems, which havethe potential to save the UK 3 8billion ayear by 2030.
1 Brand NPS has been implemented consistently in the UK, Ireland and North America from 2016.
Prior period comparatives are presented where available.
2 Brand NPS for Business energy supply in Ireland is not currently reported.
Reflecting this, the stated metric represents UK Business only.
4 UK Hive satisfaction survey based on feedback from around 3,600 customers, March November 2016.
5 Department of Business, Energy and Industry Strategy, September 2016.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS UPDATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Helping those in need We are making a difference in society by supporting vulnerable people with their energy needs and helping local communities thrive.
Vulnerable customer households Amount spent supporting vulnerable Through Ignite, we have committed helped in the UK people with their energy needs through mandatory and voluntary initiatives 8m 2.1m alongside 196m 27,600 106 million invested in mandatory hours of employee expertise in andvoluntary contributions to the start-ups which hashelped British Gas Energy Trust since 2004, helpingover 41,700 195,000 people people since 2013 MAKING ENERGY MORE ACCESSIBLE HELPING PEOPLE WITH THEIRENERGYBILLS We decided to become a dementia-friendly Ignite was cited by the UK While we strive to keep bills as low as organisation in 2016.
As part of this, we Government as a blueprint possible, werecognise some customers encouraged employees to take part in struggle topay for energy.
Identifying theDementia Friends programme, which for how business can customers who need extra support is isthebiggest ever initiative to change generate value in society.
That is why the vast majority theperception of dementia and will help ofour call centre advisers receive improve our support for people living with vulnerability trainingwhich enables them the condition.
By the end of 2016, over toprovide billassistance, debt advice 5,000 employees had become Dementia During 2016, British Gas continued its andenergy efficiency support.
Friends and we are on track to reach partnership with Shelter to raise standards 10,000Friends by May 2017.
As a result inthe private rented sector where over In 2016, we gave bill assistance payments of ofthe programme, we have reviewed athird of homes fail to meet the UK 140 each to more than 650,000 vulnerable ourPower ofAttorney process, making it Governments Decent Homes Standard.
customers as part of the mandatory easier for customers and their loved ones Building on successful campaign wins that WarmHome Discount scheme.
Meanwhile toaccess and manage their energy.
secured improvements for an estimated inNorth America, nearly 3,700 customers fourmillion people through better electrical received grants of up to $600 450 through In 2017, we will roll-out a video relay service and carbon monoxide safety as well ourvoluntary Neighbor-to-Neighbor bill that will enable British Sign Language users asprotection from retaliatory evictions, assistance programme in Texas.
to communicate with us like never before.
wesupported Shelters development of We fund the British Gas Energy Trust, CREATING IMPACT IN COMMUNITIES theLiving Home Standard.
The Standard anindependent charity, with mandatory Through Ignite, the UKs first corporate defines what everybody needs from a andvoluntary contributions.
In 2016, the impact investment fund focused on hometo live comfortably and we hope it Trust helped nearly 22,600 people get back energy, we are investing in entrepreneurs willhelp deliver better homes for Britain on their feet withinvaluable debt advice with innovative energy ideas that make bydriving upliving standards.
So far, we have committed 8 million to a range of causes We are also improving the energy efficiency from alleviating fuel poverty using free of homes through the Energy Company solarelectricity, to delivering energy Obligation.
This has enabled us to save education programmes for young people anestimated 68 million on energy bills while at the same time, generating a forvulnerable people since 2013. sustainable biofuel.
28 Being a responsible employer Creating a great place to work is essential for attracting and retaining the highly motivated and skilled workforce that can deliver for our customers.
SECURING A TALENT PIPELINE We are building new opportunities to attract Total volunteering hours MOVEMENT TO WORK and retaindiverse talent that will support Through Movement to Work, we are thegrowth of our business, enabling us to helping young, unemployed people 53,513 deliver a better service for customers and secure workplace skills.
Since 2014, we plug the shortage of skills in our sector.
2015: 52,588 have provided 700 training placements, with 60% of those taking part going In 2016, we: onto secure permanent employment Invested 35 million in training or further training.
We will provide 300 8,000British Gas engineers and additional places by the end of 2017. over1,220apprentices.
Trained 130 technicians through Direct READ MORE ON PAGE 32 Energy partnerships with local schools.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Developed workplace skills for 190 people Our ability to provide an excellent onour global graduate programmes.
service and retain our people In 2017, we intend to expand our UK isinextricably linked to employee apprenticeship intake, with a particular engagement.
To understand how focus on customer service.
employees feel, we conduct an annualsurvey.
We are inspiring future generations to pursue science, technology, engineering READ MORE ON PAGE 19 andmaths STEM careers.
Through our British Gas Generation Green education programme, over 460,000 young people have learnt to think more innovatively about DIVERSITY Our employees energy since 2010.
Similarly, Direct Energy We embrace workplace diversity because will launch its own school programme in having a range ofbackgrounds and Female 2017, using Panoramic Powers wireless perspectives enables us to betterserve sensors that show how energy could 1 the changingneeds ofourcustomers.
27% Our sector, however, traditionally lacks We also reward our people with fair diversity so we are working hard to remuneration which includes paying at Female senior management address the issue.
leastthe Living Wage to employees in theUK.
READ MORE ON PAGE 72 26% GENERATING SKILLS THROUGHVOLUNTEERING Ethnic minorities We provide our 36,500 employees with 2 upto two days paid leave to volunteer 24% eachyear, which not only makes a valuabledifference in local communities, Part-time butprovides an exciting opportunity tolearnnewskills.
3% In 2017, we will continue to raise awareness about our volunteering programmes and We are also proud to have launched weplan to extend our volunteering portal Spectrum, our Lesbian, Gay, Bi-Sexual across the business to boost involvement.
&Transgender Plus LGBT Network in2016, providing a vital source of support for employees andfeedback forour continual improvement.
1 Excluding the Board and senior management.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS UPDATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Reducing carbon emissions With around 90% of our carbon emissions arising fromcustomer consumption of energy, the greatest role wecanplay in tackling climate change is to empower our customers to cut their carbon while reducing emissions across our own business.
HELPING HOMES CUT CARBON We are helping customers reduce their Our carbon emissions energy consumption and carbon emissions through innovative andenergy efficient 2016 2015 products that give customers greater 3 control and choice see pages 10 and 11.
Total carbon emissions 5,119,709tCO e 4,392,965tCO e 2 2 3 In the UK, we calculate that we have Scope 1 5,032,493tCO e 4,282,138tCO e 2 2 enabled customers to save nearly 3 Scope 2 87,216tCO e 110,827tCO e 2 2 27mtCO e from products installed since 2 Total carbon intensity by revenue 189tCO e m 157tCO e m 2 2 2008 equivalent to the average annual 1 emissions of seven million UK homes.
We report on an equity basis with practices drawn from WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, IPIECAs Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Defras Environmental Reporting Guidelines.
In North America, we focused on reducing carbon emissions through renewable solar generation.
While 2016 was a challenging 210 million to acquire Neas Energy, year for the solar market, we completed providing tradingoptimisation for We are recognised as residential installations that generated customers withdecentralised assets, 21MWp, up slightly from 18MWp in 2015. leadersin addressing climate including wind farms and CHPplants.
GIVING LARGE-SCALE USERS CONTROL change by CDP, an international REDUCING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT Our global fide&P business is revolutionising non-governmental organisation We emit 63% less carbon for every our relationship with businesses and other poundof revenue raised compared to NGO reporting to investors large-scale energy users, giving them the 2010, primarily due to a reduction in representing around a power to operate and optimise their energy.
We do this by bringing together flexible thirdofthe worlds capital, In 2015 16, the power we sold to andlocal renewable generation, storage whogaveus an A grade customershad the lowest carbon intensity and energy efficiency measures alongside 4 foraction and disclosure.
among major UK electricity suppliers smart building management systems.
at137gCO kWh: well below the UK 2 Thisnot only lowers carbon emissions 2 average of 290gCO kWh.
2 andcuts bills, but reduces pressure ontheelectricity network.
We are making good progress against our Our UK fuel mix of power sold Central Power Generation CPG carbon To develop these capabilities further, intensity target of 200gCO kWh by 2020.
2 in2016 we invested: While our CPG carbon intensity increased 19 million with partners in a pioneering 17% to 137gCO kWh, the rise was due 2 local energy market trial in Cornwall topower generation volumes recovering thatwill explore the role of distributed following outages in 2015 and was the energy across more than 150 homes and mainfactor for the increase in our total businesses over three years.
We will test carbon emissions.
how participants interact with the latest We also remain on target to secure a technology anddevelop a virtual market 20%reduction in our core internal carbon place that provides a platform to buy footprint by 2025, having achieved an andsell energy to the grid and wholesale 8%reduction compared to 2015. energy market see page 12.
149 million to acquire ENER-G Cogen, Coal 2% asupplier of combined heat and power Gas 30% CHP solutions that allow customers Nuclear 34% toreduce costs and carbon emissions bygenerating heat and poweronsite.
Renewables 33% Other 1% 1 Ofgem 2015 household annual usage and 2016 Defra greenhouse gas emission conversion factors.
3 Restated due to availability of improved data.
