Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Beyond Clarksons into the community It is with great pride that I write to you as Chairman of the corporate social responsibility committee CSR committee.
Since taking over this role in 2013, Team Clarksons has continued to go BEYOND expectations, generously contributing to charities and working with the community to promote the maritime industry and provide work experience, employment and training opportunities to so many people, of all ages, wishing to find a way into the world of shipping and offshore.
Since 2013, members of Team Clarksons have gone BEYOND their safe zone they have climbed mountains, conquered the North Pole, cycled hills and roads, completed marathons, triathlons and tough Jeff Woyda mudders, shaved off their hair and grown moustaches, Corporate social responsibility committee Chairman tackled the 3 peaks and much, much more all for charity.
I am delighted to be able to say that Team Clarksons, during this time, has consequently contributed to over 90 charities, and raised around 1m for good causes around the world.
As a committee, we In addition to raising money, we have looked support most charitable endeavours and also highlight each year up to four charities for larger donations and beyond today and helped the community gain exploits.
We also recognise needs in times of major experience, expertise and a vision for the future.
disaster, such as the Philippines typhoon and the Japanese nuclear disaster.
Corporate social responsibility activities timeline Since the formation of the CSR committee, Clarksons staff globally have supported an incredible 94 worthwhile causes, across maritime, health and childrens charities.
The timeline below shows just a few examples of how our staff have GONE BEYOND.
Clarksons At the finish for the in the Alzheimers Society Serengeti Victorious Clarksons Olympians 2011 Abseiling West Ham for Marie Curie At the peak of Cancer Mount Elbrus 42 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information In addition to raising money, we have looked BEYOND today and were prominent in supporting Jeffrey wherever possible, including helped the community gain experience, expertise and a vision for the Lord Mayors parade and appeal during this historic milestone the future.
Students from the UK and overseas have undergone in Clarksons 164 year history.
During his year, he has promoted work experience, we have run 48 seminars for over 2,500 trainees, extensively the maritime theme, and a high point was the bringing staff, clients and other market professionals and the John Marshall together of all Managing Directors, Directors and Divisional Lectures, one week of training in each of dry cargo and tankers, Directors in the Egyptian hall of the Mansion House to celebrate have taken place every year, training in excess of 200 people Clarksons unique talent and Jeffreys appointment.
from Clarksons and the wider industry.
We also have close As a Group, we also go BEYOND the internal and reach out into relationships with many universities and business schools around the industry, with members of Team Clarksons also serving as the world specialising in maritime.
Directors of the Baltic Exchange, ITIC, the London Tanker Brokers We have a dedicated training officer, and have run lectures in a Panel, Dubai Maritime Advisory Council and Emirates Maritime broad range of topics from Life at sea and Insights on Indias Arbitration Centre.
impact on global trade and shipping to Ballast water So we at Clarksons go BEYOND in our social responsibilities in management and Marine salvage.
We have worked and hosted so many ways in giving back to our staff, society at large, the lectures with the Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers, London markets in which we work and those less fortunate than ourselves.
Shipping Law Centre and UK Chamber of Shipping to name but a We will continue this approach BEYOND the now and into few, and have ensured all staff undergo ABC training on a regular the future.
Staff are also supported in their career development, whether that involves qualifications with ICS, CIMA, ACCA or CIPD, MBA study or more practical first aid, health & safety and Jeff Woyda compliance training.
Corporate social responsibility committee Chairman Over the past year, we are BEYOND proud that our Jeff the 10 March 2017 Lord Mountevans has been Lord Mayor of London.
Clarksons Corporate social responsibility activities timeline Charity Launching beach the new rugby at safety boat Canary in Londons Wharf Docklands Clarksons spinning for Charity Giving Day Rebuilding after Typhoon Haiyan 2017 Poppy planters volunteering at Almost at Dragon the Tower of London the finish boating line of the for the Three GOSH Peaks OSCAR challenge appeal 43 www.
com Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Corporate responsibility Supporting the local community and the wider world has always formed an important part of Clarksons attitude to corporate responsibility, whether in terms of direct donations or supporting our employees as they strive to make a difference to society.
In 2013, as part of this continuing commitment, Clarksons formalised these activities by establishing a new CSR committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer and comprising representatives from different parts of the business.
The Chain Gang team keeping up the pace at the 2016 The CSR committee identified three potential areas Clarksons Charity Giving Day towards which support should be focused: maritime causes, childrens charities and health issues the latter Our activities reached a peak on 27 September with choice would be influenced by circumstances where a the first Clarksons Charity Giving Day when teams of member of staff had been directly affected by a condition six from Clarksons Houston, London, Oslo, Dubai and or situation requiring help.
In the past four years Singapore offices competed to cycle 120km in less than Clarksons globally has supported an incredible 94 four hours.
The aim was to raise as much money as worthwhile causes.
possible for two very worthwhile charities: the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation one of the Lord Mayors Clarksons staff are encouraged to nominate charities selected charities and the London Sports Trust, which that fall under these broad categories and these are is dedicated to helping young Londoners through sport regularly reviewed throughout the year by the CSR and works with disadvantaged children to fulfil their committee.
From time to time, recognising that world potential.
In total Clarksons raised more than 50,000 events can produce situations of urgent need, the CSR for these two incredible causes.
committee has made specific one-off donations.
In 2016 significant donations were made to the Our people Alzheimers Society to help fund critical research, Our people are our business.
Without enthusiastic provide education and resources and raise awareness and engaged employees we simply could not do our for a solution to the global Alzheimers epidemic: the job delivering the highest quality service to our clients.
Childrens Cancer Hospital Foundation in Egypt which Employees are expected to use good judgement and is the largest paediatric oncology hospital in the world act in the best interests of Clarksons and our clients at in terms of capacity: and the English Speaking Cancer all times and each and every member of the team shares Association in Switzerland which provides emotional our common values and aspirations to conduct our support and practical help to those affected by cancer.
business in an ethical, honest and professional manner wherever we operate.
One of the 26 teams taking part in the 2016 Clarksons Charity Giving Day 44 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Clarksons is an equal opportunities employer which Our investment in our people entrusts its reputation and market lead to more than At Clarksons people are empowered to do their best 1,393 highly motivated employees globally.
We hire the brightest talents, give them the tools is meritocratic.
We seek to appoint the best candidate to shine including IT systems and high quality training for each and every vacancy.
Candidates are considered and ensure they are suitably rewarded.
Clarksons is against fair and objective criteria which enable all committed to investing in talent retention and staff employees, irrespective of gender, race or disability, development, ensuring that as we grow both organically to advance in their career.
and through acquisition the right people are identified and developed.
Shipping is an industry that people enter into because they are enthusiastic about world trade.
This industry is Employees are encouraged to broaden their knowledge increasingly becoming an attractive employment option of the business where possible.
For example, employees as it offers career opportunities, flexibility and incentives in our Commodity Quay office are able to attend regular for those who commit themselves.
lunchtime seminars on different topics.
These seminars are led by in-house experts and or external speakers, Of the 1,393 staff within the Group at 31 December covering a wide range of topics on either an area of 2016, 371 or 27% were female 26% in 2015.
There Clarksons business or an area of personal development.
were 251 managers within the Group, of which 44 or Employees, regardless of department, are encouraged 18% were female, which is an increase of 15 or 7% year to attend these seminars, which provide a forum on year from 2015.
From total new hires made in 2016, for interested individuals to further their knowledge 27% were female.
Clarksons has undergone significant growth over the last Our training schemes remain unique in our industry, decade, including the acquisition of Platou in 2015, blending the collective skilled counsel and guidance which means that many employees have been employed of our staff with the tutelage of external experts from all for less than ten years.
Nevertheless, we are proud areas of the shipping, trading and commodity markets.
that22% of Clarksons employees have been with the organisation for more than ten years as commitment Our Trainee Broker Scheme is open to school, college tothe Company and its values ensures that there is and university graduates as Clarksons believes that the continuity of practice throughout the organisation and qualities of commitment, talent and passion we seek in asophisticated understanding of how the Clarksons a trainee require a more diverse approach to recruitment.
Trainees can expect a fully rounded education where their individual talents are nurtured and developed into Participation in the Companys LTIP and other share what we hope will enable them to become the future schemes givesemployees the opportunity to become leaders of our business.
shareholders in the Company and share in its continued growth andsuccess.
Successful development of future leaders requires a talent pool from which to select the best individuals.
Communicating with employees is an important Clarksons operates a prominent recruitment process priority.
Our flat management structure means that any which attracts in excess of 2,500 applications annually.
employee has direct access to the senior management Our own analysis has determined that the ratio of male team, with divisional managing directors working side by to female applications is circa 70:30.
This is almost side with the trainees they recruit.
All employees have identical to the gender diversity statistics recorded by access to the employee intranet which contains current Cass Business School at the City University London news, details of employee policies and other relevant for shipping-related degrees.
Employees have opportunities to attend briefings about the Companys business and Clarkson In addition to the Trainee Broker Scheme, we offer News, the Companys periodic in-house magazine, a small number of paid internships to students each provides current and former employees with information year and through long-standing relationships with about the Companys operations and colleagues around schools and academies we are able to offer regular the world.
Employees also have access to the work experience opportunities in our broking and Companys financial and regulatory publications, research divisions.
which are available on the corporate website.
We are a global business with an international workforce and the combination of languages, cultures and ideas brings a level of diversity and cultural richness that is the envy of our competitors.
Clarksons employees represent 65 nationalities globally and in a reflection of this cultural diversity, our management team represents 23 of those nationalities.
Our global presence also means that we can offer our employees the opportunity for international mobility and development throughout the Clarksons Group.
com Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Health and safety Modern Slavery Act 2015 Clarksons endeavours to create a working culture that is inclusive for all and to maintain our high standards Clarksons recognises that slavery, servitude, forced labour and human trafficking modern slavery is a across all sites.
We believe that it is vital to look after the health, safety and well-being of our staff.
providing a safe and secure workplace.
Our policies and We are committed to ensuring that there is no procedures are designed to minimise the risk of injury modern slavery in our operations or supply chains.
and ill health of all employees as well as any other parties The Clarkson Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking involved in the conduct of our business operations.
Statement for the financial year ended 31 December The conclusion of the Platou acquisition in 2015 brought 2016 is available on our website at http: www.
new locations and new teams into the Group.
this recent growth and following the integration of the new teams, we conducted a review of the health and safety policy statement for Clarksons Group in 2016.
Our objective was to establish whether the policy statement remained fit-for-purpose.
Following this review, it was determined appropriate to issue a new Group Health and Safety Policy Statement.
This new policy statement was approved by the Board in February 2017.
Health and safety committees, operating under written terms of reference, will oversee the implementation of the new statement and ongoing Environment management of the underlying policies in the UK.
Clarksons is committed to managing its environmental To support the implementation of these new policies, impact and seeks to improve its performance and reduce emissions wherever possible.
This is our fourth Clarksons has established a training plan for employees who are responsible for the day-to-day management of year of reporting greenhouse gas GHG emissions and we are pleased that significant progress has been made health and safety in the UK.
In 2017, employees with new responsibilities for health and safety management in disclosing the full impacts of our global offices.
will be trained to Institute of Occupational Safety and In addition to reporting all material emission sources for Health IOSH Managing Safely certification.
This is an which we have operational control, in 2016 we have internationally recognised certification for those who greatly expanded our disclosure of Scope 3 to include manage health and safety, accredited by IOSH who are emissions associated with business travel, water, waste the chartered body for health and safety professionals.
Increasing the emissions sources reported is anticipated that this training will be refreshed in line has increased our total footprint compared with previous with recommended best practice.
Refresher training is years but we believe this provides a more accurate being undertaken in 2017 for existing health and safety representation of our environmental impact.
personnel whose certification is over three years old.
The Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions measured in tonnes CO health and safety committees review training needs on a 2 equivalent tCO e have decreased by 10% to 2,944 regular basis for all employees as well as those directly 2 tCO e in 2016, from 3,271 tCO e reported in 2015.
This responsible for health and safety.
For example, 2 2 decrease is primarily attributable to significant upcoming training includes first aid qualifications.
improvements in data quality and coverage across our Clarkson Port Services Limited CPSL sites cover a wide office portfolio.
We are pleased to report substantial variety of activities from office-based support to port progress has been made this year in obtaining accurate agents working alongside vessels at quayside.
A emissions data from our global offices, following the well-established schedule of external and internal health addition of Platou in 2015.
This includes enhanced and safety audits takes place at CPSL sites, targeting all coverage for our London head office, Commodity Quay, aspects of the activities.
Actions from audits are tracked which was highly estimated last year.
to completion and reported to the CPSL health and safety committee.
In line with the Clarkson approach for continual improvement, the health and safety team at CPSL is working towards achieving Occupational Health and Safety Standard 18001.
Audit for this certification is expected to take place during August 2017.
46 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Global emissions by scope Emissions breakdown by resource tCO e 2 tCO e 2 2016 2015 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Scope 1 Direct control Electricity Natural gas Flights Other travel Other Natural gas, company cars, refrigerants 860 922 Excluding the additional Scope 3 emissions introduced Scope 2 Indirect control in 2016, UK offices are responsible for 59% of Purchased electricity, heat, steam Clarksons total footprint, with our largest office, and cooling 2,084 2,349 Commodity Quay, responsible for 40%.
Scope 3 Clarksons influence Emissions intensity Transmission and distribution only 179 195 Clarksons business has expanded through a Sub-total 3,123 3,466 combination of acquisition and organic growth, creating Emissions intensity fluctuations in our reported emissions on an annual tCO e per full time employee FTE 2.37 2.51 2 basis.
Increased data quality in 2016 has created a slight decrease in emissions intensity to 2.37 tCO e FTE.
By UK offices account for over half our Scope 2 emissions, 2 disclosing additional Scope 3 emissions, this intensity and the 11% reduction in the UK electricity conversion increases to 4.86 tCO e FTE largely due to the impact factor in 2016 contributes to a 265 tCO e reduction in 2 2 of flights.
Methodology Additional Scope 3 emissions Clarksons GHG emissions were calculated in In line with best practice, we have for the first time accordance with the requirements of the World included Scope 3 emissions reporting on business travel Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol revised flights, rail, company cars and taxis and additional version, Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including buildings-related emissions water, waste and paper for mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting our global offices.
This increases our total emissions guidance Defra, 2013 and ISO 14064 part 1. across all scopes, however, given the nature of our business, emissions arising from flights are responsible Additional notes on methodology: for 46% of our carbon footprint and other business travel 1 Clarksons Scope 2 emissions calculated using location-based accounts for a further 6%.
Water, waste and paper emissions factors.
In line with WRI best practice, our Scope 2 usage contribute to less than 3% of our total emissions.
market-based emissions for 2016 are 2,084 tCO e and calculated 2 using residual mix factors by country and location-based factors.
tCO e 2 Clarksons will continue engagement with landlords to improve disclosure of market-based emissions and encourage a transition 2016 2015 to more environmentally friendly suppliers and tariffs in subsequent reporting years.
Additional Scope 3 Not Business travel, water, waste, paper 3,273 reported 2 Clarksons new Tokyo office, opened in November 2016, is excluded from this years reporting but will be included in future Total all Scopes 6,396 3,466 years.
Emissions intensity 3 This work is partially based on the country-specific CO emission 2 tCO e per FTE 4.86 2.51 factors developed by the International Energy Agency, OECD 2 IEA 2016 but the resulting work has been prepared by Carbon Smart and Clarksons and does not necessarily reflect the views of Emissions breakdown by region tCO e the International Energy Agency.
2 2,481 1,830 504 339 300 282 247 176 166 150 53 61 UK Americas Asia Middle East Europe Australasia & Africa 2016 2015 Comparison of emissions by region tCO e Scopes 1, 2 and part of 2 Scope 3 including transmission and distribution.
