Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 32 Sustainability Report At Close Brothers, we are proud of our long-standing reputation built on our conservative business model, prudent underwriting, continuous support of our clients and our dedicated and motivated workforce.
We want to continue to make a positive impact on all our stakeholders by concentrating on areas which matter to them and where we can make the most difference.
Photographed on location at Barfoots of Botley Ltd. Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 33 Strong Commitment to our Stakeholders We have a wide selection of internal courses to support The group remains committed to acting responsibly, ethically personal skills development.
All employees are encouraged and with integrity in our interaction with clients and staff, our to undertake formal training and on average have completed role in the community and our environmental footprint.
over seven continuing professional development hours over The management of sustainability issues is embedded in our the past year.
However, our learning ethos looks beyond just business and supported by relevant risk policies and providing courses and places value on experiential and management oversight, with updates on employee and on-the-job learning, ensuring continuous learning responsible finance matters regularly appearing on group opportunities through experience and through others.
All our and divisional risk committee agendas.
Banking division staff will soon have access to a new online learning portal, which will provide access to a library of online Over the year, we introduced a number of new initiatives courses covering a wide range of technical and personal aimed at improving customer experience and staff skills.
development, while continuing to reduce our environmental impact and supporting wider communities.
Individual development is further supported through both group-wide and local mentoring schemes, which provide Our Employees individuals with an opportunity to build relationships outside We believe that our staff are fundamental to our business of their immediate remit, and obtain support in navigating and we are committed to building a culture where people their development journey.
strive to perform, where they feel inspired to make a difference and are well rewarded for their contribution.
We have introduced a number of programmes to develop our pipeline of up and coming talent.
Our ASPIRE school We listen and value the feedback we get from employees leavers programme is a two year rotational scheme that has and use it to work together to create a better workplace with been running successfully since 2013, giving school leavers continued improvements and increased performance across the opportunity to kick-start their career in a professional, the whole business.
We have implemented a number of challenging and fast-paced environment.
We also provide full initiatives to support the ongoing engagement and sponsorship for the Professional Certificate in Banking development of our staff, as well as making us attractive in through the Institute of Financial Services alongside the external market.
Our graduate programme provides an opportunity for new graduates to join functional Engaging our people business teams and obtain practical, on-the-job training as We track the engagement of our staff through our groupwell as additional mentoring support and an opportunity to wide employee engagement survey, which is run every two study towards a relevant professional qualification to support years, and due to be run again at the end of the calendar their career development.
Our last set of survey results, which were released in early 2015, were particularly strong, with 88% of employees To develop our next generation of professionals within asset surveyed indicating that they were satisfied working for Close finance, the Training Academy was launched in September Brothers, and we also had a high overall response rate of 2015.
The first intake is focused on sales and provides the 87%.
30 candidates with two years of classroom and field based training, along with mentoring from some of our experienced Despite being proud of these results, we are not complacent, sales managers.
In addition, Close Brothers Asset with all our executive teams having set and committed to Management launched their Adviser Academy this year, to action plans for their divisions.
These action plans focused develop skills and provide career advancement opportunities not only on what we could improve, but on maintaining the for our financial advisers.
Following the success of the first areas where we scored highly, to ensure that we maintain cohort, the programme will now be rolled out to all existing those standards and continue to build on our strengths.
action plans are supported by local plans and activities, and their progress has been tracked with local pulse surveys and We have a robust process in place for monitoring our key focus groups over the past 18 months.
internal talent and identifying succession plans for key and critical roles.
Talent conversations are held within functions Developing our people and businesses to ensure we have a clear picture of our We are committed to providing opportunities for our people upcoming talent pipeline, and succession plans for key roles to fully realise their potential and develop their career within are reported to the board annually.
Earlier this year we implemented a new recruitment system which has facilitated the promotion of internal vacancies across the group.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 34 Sustainability Report continued Currently around 40% of our employees are participating in at least one of these schemes.
Diversity and equality Diversity is a key focus of the board and executive committees, and we continuously endeavour to make Photographed on location at G&H Sheet Fed Ltd. Close Brothers appealing to a diverse population.
Our Equal Opportunity and Dignity at Work policy is in place to ensure equal, respectful and dignified treatment throughout our recruitment process and through all stages of the employee lifecycle.
We are committed to Our Emerging Leaders Programme is an opportunity for supporting all individuals in realising their full potential and our pool of future leaders to build a network, receive contributing to our companys success irrespective of constructive feedback and focus on their development in gender, race, age, disability, sexual orientation or religion, a safe and supportive environment.
This successful and will not tolerate harassment or discrimination of programme has just completed its fourth cohort in employees in any form.
Our last employee survey reported that 88% of staff Remuneration and benefits across the group who took part in the survey believe that As part of our commitment to continuously improve our Close Brothers treats their employees fairly regardless of employee proposition, last year we conducted a gender, ethnicity or for any other diversity reasons.
comprehensive review of our benefits package across the group and have introduced some new and enhanced We regularly monitor and report on our diversity metrics, benefits to further support our people in the areas that and share this with our senior leadership teams.
Our are most important to them.
These include their workforce is made up of 44% females, 23% of our wellbeing, work-life balance as well as options around employees are under 30 years old, and 15% are over 50. saving for the future.
Our board and executive committee each have three female members, meaning we already meet the new The new offering includes the opportunity to purchase recommended voluntary target for FTSE 350 companies, additional holiday, a further enhancement of our maternity set out in the Women on Boards Davies Review to have and adoption leave, introduction of shared parental leave, a minimum of 33% female directors by 2020.
In this five and a back up care scheme for child and elderly care, as year summary of progress into improving gender balance well as the introduction of a low-emission car salary on British boards, published in October 2015, our board sacrifice scheme.
This is in addition to the benefits that was ranked equal 17th in the FTSE 250 in terms of were already in place, which included a group-wide gender diversity, with a female representation of 33% company pension scheme, life insurance and private compared to the average female representation on FTSE medical insurance, childcare vouchers, a staff discount 250 boards of 20%.
scheme, a cycle to work scheme and interest free season ticket loans.
To support our staff with saving for the future, we offer a Save As You Earn scheme, intended to encourage saving and build long-term share ownership, as well as a Buy As You Earn share incentive plan allowing employees to acquire shares on a monthly basis out of pre-tax earnings.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 35 Gender Diversity Male Female Number of board directors1 6 3 2 Number of directors of subsidiaries 60 8 3 Number of senior employees, other than board directors 17 8 Number of employees, other than board directors and senior employees 1,614 1,329 1 Includes non-executive directors, excluded from group headcount calculations.
2 Includes subsidiary directors who are excluded from group headcount calculations.
3 Senior employees indentified as Material Risk Takers who are not directors or subsidiary directors.
Our strategy to promote a diverse workforce is focused on Responsible finance building a genuinely meritocratic culture.
We examine all We have a wide range of policies in place across all our areas and build our diversity focus into all our people related divisions to ensure that our staff and management are aware activities, including compensation review, talent and of their responsibilities towards our customers and comply succession planning, leadership programmes, the with all regulatory requirements.
We promote best practice development of our benefits package, recruitment, training and strict compliance with relevant rules and regulations and development.
supported by a range of compulsory training programmes for all employees.
The relevant policies include: Some of the initiatives that we have introduced to support diversity include: Conduct risk and treating customers fairly Working with our leadership teams to raise awareness The conduct risk framework has been enhanced, and a about unconscious bias and about the benefits of greater range of risk indicators are being used in the supporting female talent and making our organisation production of monthly management information.
This gives appealing to a more diverse population.
senior management a broader view of conduct related Further enhancing maternity and adoption leave, and behaviours and demonstrates that conduct risk is well introducing enhanced shared parental leave to the same embedded within the culture of Close Brothers.
level to allow more flexibility in caring for young children.
Introducing an emergency back up care benefit for staff, Anti-money laundering regulations allowing access to a network of childcare and eldercare We have implemented policies and procedures in providers when normal care arrangements fail.
accordance with anti-money laundering regulations and have Promoting flexible working where possible.
dedicated money laundering reporting officers where Ensuring a consistent and clear tone from the top on our required.
Our chief executive is a member of the 30% Club, an organisation focused on promoting good Whistle-blowing policy gender balance at all levels in organisations.
Our whistle-blowing procedure has been enhanced ahead of Introducing a new recruitment system which allows us to the new rules which came into effect in September 2016, monitor the diversity of job applicants, so that we can with the appointment of a Whistle-blowers champion.
We ensure we are attracting potential candidates from a have also introduced a confidential telephone whistlevariety of backgrounds.
blowing service, operated by a third party provider.
Additional training has been rolled out across the group ensuring that Our Customers staff are aware of the new enhanced process.
Our reputation as a leading merchant banking group is built on our strong culture and persistent focus on our customers Anti-bribery and corruption policy and their needs.
We continuously strive to improve the Our anti-bribery and corruption policy sets out the group customer experience across all our businesses and maintain standards and best practice for business conduct under the the highest standards in all our dealings with clients.
Over the Bribery Act 2010. year we have made particular improvements around data protection and cyber security and introduced Customer Privacy policy Experience and Operational Excellence programmes Our privacy policy ensures the protection and correct within our Banking division.
These are focused on delivery of treatment of client data in accordance with the Data the right technologies and services for our customers, Protection Act 1998. supported by streamlined and simplified operational processes.
Health and safety policy Our health and safety policy ensures the provision of a safe and healthy working environment for our employees and visitors in accordance with The Management of Health and Safety at Work Regulations 1999.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 36 Sustainability Report continued Human rights and Modern Slavery Act The board gives due regard to human rights considerations, as defined under the European Convention on Human Rights and the UK Human Rights Act 1998.
Photographed on location at JAH Plant Hire Ltd. We are aware of our responsibilities and obligations under the Modern Slavery Act and are in the process of implementing the systems and controls ensuring compliance on a group level.
During the year we implemented a new risk assessment process that gives us full oversight of health and safety Customer experience risk management across the business, ensuring Our customers are fundamental to our business and we compliance with appropriate legislation.
constantly monitor ways to improve their experience of doing business with us.
This strong focus on our Additional firm wide policies are in place to ensure the customers is evidenced by high levels of repeat business highest standards in all our dealings with clients and and net promoter scores NPS.
We use the industry other stakeholders: standard NPS measure to assess the customer satisfaction and loyalty across most of our businesses.
The NPS Complaints handling ranges from -100 to 100, depending on how likely We take all complaints seriously, with each division customers are to recommend our company.
Our scores monitoring customer complaints to ensure they are dealt continue to remain at strong levels relative to the wider with efficiently and promptly, with action taken to prevent banking sector, with asset, motor and Treasury all achieving future recurrence.
Customer data and privacy During the year, we have set up Customer Experience During the year we have conducted the first group-wide and Operational Excellence programmes within the audit of data protection, which will be conducted on a Banking division, as tools that will allow us to anticipate biennial basis.
the rapidly changing needs of our customers and to develop new services to meet those needs.
These new We constantly monitor and enhance our systems and initiatives have been designed to create and embed a controls to ensure that our clients are safeguarded culture of continuous improvement, which encourages against system failure or cyber attack.
We are now an collaborative working across businesses.
This approach active member of GCHQs Cyber Information Sharing will help us to better understand our customers, and to Partnership.
The partnership provides early warning and identify opportunities to improve the way we operate allows intelligence sharing across the industry.
across all business processes which will enhance the overall customer experience.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 37 We continue to run customer forums at both a divisional and the charities themselves with a fresh and diverse pool of business unit level, which are designed to ensure that we potential board members.
The programme is open to Close continue to offer our customers consistently high quality Brothers employees as well as to external professionals.
Within our Banking division, the date, 297 delegates have completed the programme, and 91 seven separate forums focus on five key customer principles, of those have since been matched with board positions which define their scope and objectives: within charitable organisations.
Following the success of the We seek to ensure the right outcomes for our customers.
London-based programme, a second programme is being We endeavour to ensure our pricing is fair and appropriate.
launched in Manchester later this year.
We are clear and consistent in the way we communicate with customers.
In addition to group-wide community activities, many of our We expect our standards to be upheld by our partners.
local businesses are involved in their regional communities.
We are responsible lenders and deposit takers.
From supporting a local primary school in helping children learn to read, to running a beer festival to support a local Alongside the customer forums, direct feedback is regularly hospital, we encourage our people to use their strengths to collected via customer and staff surveys, targeted research, support their local communities and get involved in initiatives complaints analysis and mystery shopping exercises.
We want to ensure that the complaint handling process is The group Corporate Social Responsibility CSR as fair as possible providing a single point of contact Committee is chaired by our group head of human resources whenever possible and we continuously review and improve and supported by employees across the group: we also our processes to deliver fast and satisfactory outcomes for have a number of local CSR committees which run initiatives customers.
We have policies and training in place to ensure to raise funds for charity.
our staff can identify vulnerable customers and that they are treated fairly in our interaction with them.
Charitable Activities The groups charitable donations have continued to increase The strong focus on our customers is further reflected in the and we contributed a total of 278,392 during the 2016 following awards won during the year: The 2016 Best financial year, which is a 6% increase on 2015. Business Award for our asset finance business: Best Factoring & Invoice Discounting Provider for invoice finance: For the past four years, we have partnered with Cancer and Best Business Motor Finance Provider for our motor Research UK, which remains the staffs chosen charity.
Every year, we run a group-wide charity week, and in 2016, we are very proud to say that we held our most successful Our Communities charity week ever, donating over 74,000 to Cancer At Close Brothers, we strive to make a positive contribution Research UK, more than double the amount raised in the to the communities we operate in.
We have invested in a prior year.
The week consisted of a number of locally number of community based initiatives across the group and organised events for staff, as well as some group-wide encourage our employees to get involved with a range of initiatives, and resulted in Close Brothers receiving a Flame of initiatives that matter to them.
Hope Special Commendation Award from Cancer Research UK in their corporate fundraising category.
The Close Brothers SME Apprentice Programme continued the success of its first year by launching phase two in 2016.
Our Close Brothers Matched Giving Scheme encourages Last year, we piloted this unique scheme, by contributing to staff to fundraise and volunteer for the charities they support the funding of 20 new apprentices in the Sheffield area.
We by matching 50% of funds raised, or donating 8 per hour of are proud to support a further 20 this year, in the voluntary time given by employees.
We also match funds Birmingham area.
With the skills gap weighing heavily on the raised by other local, organised fundraising activities, UK manufacturing sector, the scheme helps SMEs to tackle encouraging employees to work together to raise money for the issues of cost and red tape so they can take on an causes that are close to their hearts.
This financial year we apprentice and invest in a new generation of skilled workers.
The programme runs in partnership with the Manufacturing Technologies Association and manufacturing training centres In addition, we match contributions under our Payroll Giving AMRC and EEF.
scheme, which allows employee donations to be made directly from pre-tax salary.
Over 14% of employees across Our Trustee Leadership Programme, launched in 2014 by the group are signed up to Payroll Giving, allowing us to our Asset Management division in partnership with social maintain our Payroll Giving Quality Mark Gold Award for the enterprise Cause 4, was developed to give young sixth consecutive year.
Each of our divisions individually hold professionals the skills and confidence to take on a board either Platinum or Gold awards, with participation ranging level role within a charity.
This is a fulfilling and career from 14% to over 20% across the divisions.
enriching opportunity for the individuals, while also providing Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 38 Sustainability Report continued Waste reduction and recycling We continue to reduce water and paper usage across all our offices by encouraging secure and duplex printing, and monitor waste reduction via a third party provider.
Waste recycling is encouraged in all our offices, and in 2016 at our head office, we avoided 238 cubic metres of Photographed on location at Matsuura Machinery Ltd. landfill and saved 314 trees.
We also encourage our employees to reduce their individual environmental impact by offering a cycle to Our Environment work scheme and by providing leasing of low emission Here at Close Brothers we care about the environment cars as part of our travel policy.
we operate in and are aware of our responsibility to protect natural resources and to behave sustainably.
We Greenhouse gas GHG emissions believe, that as a financial services company, our In line with the GHG Protocol framework, we have environmental impact is limited and mostly driven by staff calculated the GHG emissions associated with our travel, our supply chain and our office network.
Scope 1 includes fuel emissions from buildings and company vehicles, and While relatively small, we continue to monitor ways to Scope 2 includes our emissions from electricity.
reduce this impact by lowering our energy consumption, reducing emissions and waste and increasing recycling.
In 2016, our total GHG emissions were 6,730 tonnes of Each of our businesses manages its resources and carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e, equating to 2.28 2 recycling locally and all Banking division sites are now tCO e per employee, down 2.8% overall and 8.8% per 2 supplied from renewable sources.
The largest source of GHG emissions was our Scope 2 electricity consumption.
The In addition to this, we are a significant provider of finance relocation of our staff from the Tolworth office to a more to the green energy sector.
Launched in 2014, our green energy efficient building in Wimbledon at the beginning of energy lending business provides finance for wind, solar the year was the primary driver behind the reduction in and hydro power developments, focusing on projects our electricity and overall tCO e emissions in 2016.
Given 2 which are typically too small for standard project finance its relative size our Banking division continues to account providers.
for the majority of our GHG emissions.
The majority of the increased fuel owned vehicles consumption in 2016 was Energy consumption driven by the growth in the Banking division front office We have completed an energy audit under the Energy staff during the year.
Savings Opportunity Scheme regulations for the first time in December 2015.
This new scheme requires large UK A full breakdown of our 2016 GHG emissions, together businesses to undertake an energy audit every four years with corresponding data for 2015, is shown on page 39. which will aim to identify energy efficiency opportunities, leading to significant savings on future energy bills.
Close Brothers also participated in the CDP formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project this year, which involves disclosure of our greenhouse gas emissions on a voluntary basis.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 39 GHG Emissions by Division tCO e 2 4,088 3,787 1,153 1,083 898 977 787 878 Group Banking Securities Asset Management 2016 2015 Note: Group reflects the group headquarters which includes some Banking division businesses.
GHG Emissions Summary tCO e 2 Scope GHG emissions source 2016 20151 Scope 1 Fuel Buildings 160 165 Fuel Owned vehicles 3,229 2,677 Scope 2 Electricity 3,341 4,079 Total GHG emissions 6,730 6,921 Average number of employees 2,946 2,767 Total per employee 2.28 2.50 1 The prior year figures exclude the impact of discontinued activities, following the disposal of Close Brothers Seydler on 5 January 2015.
Calculation The Strategic Report was approved by the board and signed We have continued to gather data, working with an on its behalf by: independent third party GHG emissions reporting company.
This verifies the accuracy of our data and enables us to monitor our performance.
Preben Prebensen Chief Executive Our total GHG emissions are reported as tCO e and are 2 calculated in line with the GHG Protocol framework.
In 27 September 2016 addition to reporting our total emissions, we have also disclosed the emissions per employee as an intensity metric to enable a comparable analysis.
Outlook We will continue to monitor and report our GHG emissions, working to improve our energy efficiency across our businesses.
We encourage our offices to report their Scope 3 emissions for water and waste each quarter, where this information is available, to facilitate continued performance monitoring.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 40 Governance 42 Board of Directors 44 Executive Committee 45 Report of the Directors 47 Corporate Governance 60 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration Photographed on location at G&H Sheet Fed Ltd. Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 41
