CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT THE GROUP IS COMMITTED TO ITS CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES: THE BOARD ACTIVELY ENCOURAGES CSER INTEGRATION INTO THE BUSINESS BY EMPLOYEES ACROSS THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT I am proud to note that this year our staff have supported more community events than before, with 27 social and The global climate change summit held in Paris during the charitable events raising 52,000 in the year.
It is one of end of 2015 COP21 was a significant milestone in addressing our Group objectives that the majority of our employees worldwide environmental challenges.
Europe continues to lead participate in a community event during 2017. the way in its efforts to transition towards lower carbon economies, with record renewable generation.
With no global We have a busy year ahead, focusing on our energy mix across growth of fossil fuel generation there is a clear indication that the Group as we plan to install nine photovoltaic systems and pledges made at COP21 are coming into effect.
smart metering across our French and German assets.
As a business, we want to ensure that we also play our part in reducing our impact on the environment whilst developing Fredrik Widlund our role within the communities in which we operate.
I believe Chief Executive Officer sustainability is cultural and should be integral in our business processes and I fully support our in-house sustainability team 8 March 2017 to deliver on our commitments.
In support of our sustainability programme, we implemented a number of technological innovations that have improved the way we monitor, manage and reduce unnecessary energy usage within the managed portfolio.
Through the use of smart metering we now have greater visibility to make energy savings and are able to engage with our tenants at an early stage.
This has resulted in a Group wide carbon emissions reduction in our managed buildings of 11.4% 2015: 7.7%, which is an excellent achievement.
We continue to make improvements to the energy efficiency of our buildings and have no investment properties that have an EPC rating of D or below.
SUSTAINABILITY AT CLS Our strategy is designed to deliver on the objectives of the Groups Sustainability Charter the Charter to make our business more sustainable.
We also aim to improve the working environment for all our stakeholders.
In order to implement our sustainability strategy, we have an in-house sustainability department which reports to the Board and whose task is to achieve our key objectives.
Buspace Studio Photovoltaic array CLSs first installation of photovoltaic array 43 kW system, generating approximately 43,000 kWh pa 165 panels covering 278 sqm of roof space 30 STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Accounts Other Information STRATEGIC REPORT CLS Holdings plc 2 CLS at a glance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4 How we operate 6 2016 Business Highlights 7 2016 Financial Highlights 8 Chairmans Statement 10 Investors 12 Business Review 26 Actively Managing our Portfolio 28 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 30 Corporate, Social & Environmental Responsibility Report THE SUSTAINABILITY CHARTER to use our Charter to influence the behaviour of our partners, tenants, suppliers and other stakeholders, The Sustainability Charter the Charter aims to promote to promote the principles on which it is based our sustainability aspirations through continuous improvements which can influence and mitigate our impact on the to promote and support social and charitable events environment, the local community, the economy and key to ensure we contribute in the communities in which stakeholders.
The Group undertakes: we invest to mitigate our impact on climate change by reducing our carbon footprint STAKEHOLDER INCLUSIVENESS to be accountable for our performance relating to climate We define our stakeholders as anyone who occupies office change by reporting regularly against measurable space in our buildings, works with us, or for us, or invests indicators in us.
As our culture is entrepreneurial, professional, open and friendly, this allows for constructive feedback to be to make the most effective use of our duties, powers and reviewed and implemented throughout all levels of the resources to minimise the impact of our actions on the business ensuring we are constantly improving.
We also environment, and to enhance the environment, community carry out staff and customer satisfaction surveys across and economy wherever possible the business to ensure that we understand and respond to monitor our progress by carrying out regular to our stakeholders views.
assessments against the key actions of the Charter Spring Mews Combined Heat and Power Plant CLSs largest low carbon on-site generation Generates approximately 376,000 kWh electricity and 205 kW heating capacity 43% more efficient than conventional boilers and grid generation Used to heat domestic hot water for 378 student rooms at Spring Mews, London 31 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED EMPLOYEES 2016 ACHIEVEMENTS Culture Our culture is entrepreneurial, professional, open and friendly.
We have employees from 15 countries which helps to foster a diverse cosmopolitan environment with integrity and responsibility at the heart of our business.
We have fewer Corporate than 100 employees looking after a property portfolio of 1.6 billion, and we recognise that they make CLS what Continued to achieve a fully fide-risked portfolio it is and contribute significantly to its success.
against the upcoming Minimum Energy Efficiency Standard Recruitment Finding the right people is the key to our long-term success.
Installed automatic meter reading across 100% Having a diverse workforce is also a source of competitive of the UK portfolio.
France and Germany will be advantage.
Therefore, we have developed appropriate policies completed in 2017 and procedures which underline our commitment to equal Set-up a pan-European energy data platform to opportunity and diversity in employment.
Our recruitment and enable the management of utility costs for our interview policy ensures that these objectives are met and fully tenants and ourselves understood by those recruiting.
It seeks to ensure that no employee or applicant is treated less favourably on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, colour, nationality, ethnicity, religion, disability or sexual orientation nor is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements, including age limits, which cannot be justified objectively.
Entry into, and progression within, the Group is solely determined by the job criteria, personal aptitude and competence.
We apply best practice in the employment of people with Social disabilities, which is reflected in our recruitment and interview policy.
Full and fair consideration is given to every Introduced our first environmental behaviour application for employment from disabled people whose change programme for our tenants in the UK aptitude and skills can be used in the business, and to their Completed 27 CSR events throughout 2016 and training and career development.
This includes, wherever contributed 52,000 in support possible, the retraining and retention of staff who become disabled during their employment.
We are proud that we Increased the amount actively and social events have been able to attract, motivate and retain high calibre for staff to participate in across the Group employees, which, in turn, has ensured the continued and sustained improvement in the performance of the Group.
Engagement and Wellbeing We promote all aspects of employee engagement and promote an open door policy: we encourage all employees to share ideas and get involved in developing our policies and practices.
With a predominantly flat management structure we are able to ensure that all employees are informed of matters concerning Energy their interests and the financial and economic factors affecting the business.
In addition to the weekly departmental meetings that are held across the Group, our Executive Directors present & Environmental our annual and half-yearly results to all employees which is Achieved a carbon emission reduction across the followed by a question and answer session.
This gives everyone Group of 11.4%, which is our fifth consecutive an understanding of the business, and how everyones work year of carbon reductions contributed to the Companys performance during the period.
Increased the amount of renewable & low carbon We want to make sure everyone works towards the same goal.
energy generated on our sites by 32% Every 12 months we undertake a performance review of each employee, setting their objectives for the forthcoming year.
These individual objectives reflect the Group objectives set by the Chief Executive Officer, which in turn are based on the Groups Key Performance Indicators and sustainability targets contained in this report on page 35.
We have a dedicated Intranet which allows us to promote new policies, procedures, Group activities and employee events.
32 STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 EMPLOYEE GENDER RATIO Engagement is also about understanding the needs of at 31 December 2016 Whole Group our employees.
This enables us to create a better working environment which, in turn, drives performance, loyalty and success.
In return, we reward our staff through a number of Male: 49.5% reward structures including salary, bonuses, a cash loyalty Female: 50.5% award for those who have been with the Group for more than 2 years and a share incentive plan.
We seek the views of our employees through staff satisfaction surveys, conducted through a third party advisor so as to ensure anonymity.
In August 2016 all employees were invited to take part in a survey which covered a range of topics including: effectiveness, engagement, remuneration, Total Staff is 84 people development opportunities, respect and recognition and 97.2% are full time equivalent confidence in leaders.
We were pleased to note that 83% of our employees felt that they were treated with respect: 86% felt proud to work for the Group and 87% felt that there was good cooperation and teamwork within the organisation.
In order to distil the key themes arising from the survey, we set up a workshop, comprised of representatives from across the Group and facilitated by an independent external advisor, to recommend changes to the way we work.
These were then presented to the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Group HR, who have set a timeframe for the implementation of the recommendations during 2017.
Through the survey we noticed a trend for more flexible and smarter working practices, the need to foster good interdepartmental relationships and a wish to understand the business by visiting properties within the portfolio.
During 2016 we held a Group-wide conference attended by all employees, at which we promoted the Groups culture and values, provided specific presentations on areas of the business and developed our team working skills with an emphasis on bringing together our European offices.
Training and Development Remuneration Our overall remuneration and benefits package is designed to attract, motivate and retain employees.
Our remuneration 45 % structure is simple, combining salary and benefits with an of staff completed professional training annual discretionary bonus and a long-term retention bonus based on the Groups performance over a two year period.
Following feedback from employees, which focussed on employee engagement within the business, we are also 125 days recommending the implementation of a share incentive plan of training completed for all employees at our 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Training and Development All employees are actively encouraged to undertake training to 84,000 achieve professional qualifications and to keep up to date with spent on training developments in their specialised areas.
The staff survey results showed that 81% of employees felt that we provided enough training for employees to handle their jobs, which was 16% 2,210 higher than the external benchmark.
We ensure that those Average spend per person trained with direct reports undertake management training on areas such diversity, appraisals and performance.
We also promote non-core training, such as foreign language skills, which, whilst not central to a particular role, will allow an employee 3.29 days to broaden their skills base.
As part of our knowledge sharing Average days spent training per person trained and personal development, we have set up internal workshops at which departments will present to other departments on their specific role within the organisation, thereby developing employees wider business knowledge and understanding of 537 hours how the Groups activities inter-relate.
hours of CPD awarded 33 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED HEALTH & SAFETY BUSINESS ETHICS It is a primary focus of the Board that the Group manages The Board recognises the importance of the Groups its activities in such a manner as to ensure that the health responsibilities as an ethical employer and views matters in and safety of its employees, customers, advisors, contractors which the Group interacts with the community both socially and and the general public is not compromised.
As part of this economically as the responsibility of the whole Board.
Following process the Group employs specialist accredited advisers the enactment of the Bribery Act 2010, the Group implemented to advise on all health and safety matters.
The Group also a suitable policy which further demonstrated its commitment to operates a Health and Safety Committee, which covers issues business ethics.
To ensure continued compliance with the related to the UK portfolio and its employees.
Chaired by Bribery Act 2010, training is given to all new employees, and an the Company Secretary, the committee comprises Facility annual online compliance check is completed by all employees.
Managers, Property Managers, employees and advisors, and is responsible to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 Officer also attends Health and Safety Committee meetings.
The Modern Slavery Act 2015 came into effect on 29 October All regions maintain and follow local health and safety policies 2015 requiring any UK commercial organisation which and report issues to the Chief Executive Officer.
This reporting supplies goods or services with a turnover of more than process has worked effectively throughout the year and has 36 million to prepare a statement setting out the steps ensured ongoing compliance with health and safety legislation.
taken during the financial year to ensure that slavery and Risk assessment summary for the UK human trafficking is not taking place in any of its supply In the UK, the Group sets health and safety objectives covering chains or its own business.
our workforce and portfolio and is monitored by the Health and The Group has published its first statement in respect of the Safety Committee.
Each managed or occupied property within year ended 31 December 2016, which can be found on our the UK portfolio undergoes an annual risk assessment against website at www.
which our targets can be measured.
Our targets address three The Group upholds the highest standards of business ethics key areas: and undertook a review of its supply chain during the period.
Risk Management & Control: at the annual risk The Board is confident that as a result of the Groups assessment, 90% of all identified risks are deemed to management and reporting structure, there are no such be under control practices taking place.
Document Compliance: 100% of all required health and safety site documentation is available on the PROMPT PAYMENT CODE H&S Management System and is not out of date for CLS is a signatory to the Prompt Payment Code PPC, more than one month a voluntary scheme backed by the UK Government to set Accidents: ensure that the Accident Frequency Rate standards of best practice for payment of suppliers.
The PPC is below the national average.
requires all signatories to pay 95% of their undisputed invoices to suppliers within a 60 day period.
These targets are testament to the work of our Facilities and Property Management Teams which we believe underlines Since joining, the Group has made significant changes in the importance of active in-house management.
its payment processes and is currently paying 97% of all undisputed invoices in the UK within 60 days, thus exceeding Health & Safety: 2016 Performance against objectives: the required terms for the PPC.
RISK MANAGEMENT ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE CONTROL RATE PER 100,000 PERSONS 138 95% 90% 228 TARGET ACTUAL INDUSTRY CLS 34 STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CORPORATE OBJECTIVE PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS Objectives Achievement Change Introduce a Group-wide energy software platform Achieved which will be available for tenants to use Pass Install smart metering across all majors assets Completed 100% smart metering in the Group by the end of 2016 in the UK with Germany and France Partially pass to follow in 2017 Ensure every asset in the UK has an EPC rating Achieved no worse than F- 136 rating Pass Set long-term sustainability targets in line with Group Long-term sustainability targets continue strategy and wider country-level carbon roadmaps to be developed in each country Partially pass Promote health and wellbeing across our staff Achieved and tenants Pass Continue to support CSR events in the community Achieved we invest in Pass Carry out an annual staff survey to improve our Achieved working environment Pass Reduce carbon emissions and water consumption by Achieved 5% year-on-year in the managed like-for-like portfolio Pass Divert 100% of waste from landfill in the managed likeAchieved for-like portfolio Pass Recycle 70% of all UK waste collected from At December 2016 CLS achieved 53% the managed like-for-like portfolio recycling.
More actions will be taken to Ongoing achieve this target in 2017 EMISSION PERFORMANCE COMPARISON: MANAGED LIKE-FOR-LIKE PORTFOLIO Year on year Improvement % Change in 2015 2016 Worsening performance GHG Type Gas tonnes CO e 1,766 1,695 70 3.99% Scope 1 2 Electricity tonnes CO e 4,484 3,840 645 14.38% Scope 2 2 Total tonnes CO e 6,250 5,535 715 11.44% Scope 1&2 2 Total tonnes CO e sqm 0.0226 0.0200 0.0026 11.44% Scope 1&2 sqm 2 MANAGED LIKE-FOR-LIKE EMISSIONS ON-SITE RENEWABLE & LOW CARBON BREAKDOWN OF 2016 MANAGED 000s tonnes CO e ELECTRICITY GENERATION LIKE-FOR-LIKE EMISSIONS BY COUNTRY 2 million kWh 7 2015 0.6 Germany 2016 18% 6 0.5 France 5 0.4 Spring Mews CHP 2% 4 Spring Mews x2 PV 0.3 Kings House PV 3 0.2 Falcon House PV UK 2 Crosspoint House PV 80% 0.1 1 Chancel house PV Buspace Studios PV 0 0 CSR REPORT ONLINE FULL DETAIL To download the report, visit www.
com 35 Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Total 2014 Total 2015 Total 2016
