Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Acting responsibly andsustainably activities.
The implementation and effectiveness Cobham solves complex engineering of the CECP is overseen by the Business Ethics & Compliance Committee, and ultimately the Board.
problems from the depths of the ocean The programme is underpinned by the Cobham Code of Business Conduct COBC, which outlines to deep space the Groups core values and the behavioural standards it mandates for all its officers, employees and representatives on a range of issues, including anti-bribery and corruption.
Cobham has a clearly stated zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption in any form.
All employees are required to receive training on the COBC and other ethics Identifying material, corporate responsibility on the Groups 2016 data see page 80 for more and compliance training, including anti-corruption.
Completion of this training is closely monitored The Company has identified its material corporate to ensure all employees are aware of the Groups responsibility and sustainability issues primarily by Training on various responsibility and sustainability expectations.
Cobham maintains an independent using the Sustainability Accounting Standards Boards topics, including business ethics and safety is Ethics Helpline and website where suspected SASB Materiality Map http: www.
org received by employees, and the Board.
compliance violations can be reported.
The Materiality sought to improve the handling of concerns raised Map identifies likely material sustainability The Groups policies and assurance statements on via the Ethics Helpline through a range of steps, issues on an industry-by-industry basis.
Using this all these issues are available at https: www.
including providing specialist training to a panel methodology, Cobham has identified its issues by com the-group  newly appointed internal investigators.
Further reference to the Materiality Map industry sectors sustainability .
details on the Groups approach to ethics and relevant to its businesses: Aerospace and Defence, compliance can be found at www.
com theElectrical and Electronic Equipment, Electronic group  Economic dimension Manufacturing Services, Hardware, Semiconductors  policy-downloads.
Cobham also identifies material The Group operates in specialist markets, a number issues using the results of investor, customer A related risk area is the use of third party of which are highly regulated.
Compliance with and employee feedback.
intermediaries as a route to market.
Failure of an applicable laws and regulations is a Group principal intermediary to comply with laws and regulations risk refer to risk 11 on page 39.
It is Group policy Prioritising material issues or to complete appropriate intermediary due to comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
The material issues have been prioritised according diligence can impact the Groups reputation as The Group is also committed to sustaining an to Groups strategic actions see page 16 to 19. well as lead to significant fines or debarments from ethical culture, on the basis that acting responsibly, The results of this are contained in the table below.
government contracts and new business.
Cobhams sustainably and in a legally compliant manner Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption policy requires provides a number of demonstrable benefits.
All material disclosures are verified internally, and external statements are reviewed by the Groups Cobham welcomes feedback The Cobham Ethics and Compliance Programme on its corporate responsibility auditors.
Cobham also obtains limited external CECP has been developed to support this positive and sustainably approach at assurance on its recording of greenhouse gas culture through a range of policies, processes and crs@cobham.
Bureau Veritas provided assurance Strategic actions Improve Allocate Enhance Focus on operational Invest in capital for skills and Material issue customers performance technology growth capabilities Economic dimension Business ethics Materials sourcing and supply chain management Social dimension Talent attraction, development and retention Diversity and inclusion Employee health and safety Human rights Environmental dimension Environmental sustainability www.
com Cobham plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP POR ORT T intermediaries to undergo a comprehensive due As set out in the Chief Executive Officers Statement diligence and approval process prior to engagement.
on pages 6 and 7, although voluntary turnover was In 2016 Cobham took steps to further improve just under the target, the Group plans to review its its intermediary risk management process.
reporting structures, including its internal processes Enhancements include increasing the range of and the allocation of responsibilities as these have counterparties subject to additional due diligence, become overly complex and unclear.
In a number and utilising technology to provide continuous of instances the Group recognises that this has led real time due diligence monitoring.
to duplication, reduced accountability and slow decision making.
This has contributed to the period Cobham measures the effectiveness of the CECP of sustained operational and financial challenges through a range of KPIs, including metrics designed and ultimately it has impacted employee morale.
to measure how implementation of the programme has improved year on year.
A key KPI for the CECP Diversity and inclusion In 2016, the Group published a Supplier Code of Conduct is the completion of mandatory COBC training.
In The Group operates in an increasingly global market on its website and expects all its suppliers to comply.
The business environment is becoming completed COBC training.
increasingly competitive and Cobham must attract the best individuals to achieve its growth plans.
Ageing Materials sourcing and supply chain populations and declining numbers of university management Social dimension graduates in its principal markets are leading to Cobham is legally, and sometimes contractually, organisations from multiple sectors competing for Attraction, development and retention required to disclose certain information regarding the same talent, particularly in science, technology, of talent its global supply chains.
Compliance with applicable engineering and mathematics subjects on which Attracting and retaining talented and engaged laws and regulations and changing contracting the Group substantially relies.
Societal expectations employees is critical to the ability to execute environment are principal risks refer to risks 11 and with respect to equality, diversity and inclusion are strategic growth plans, deliver on key programmes 2 on pages 39 and 36 respectively.
The Groups also changing, with legislation such as the Equality and meet service level requirements.
Failure to do Responsible Supply Chain Management RSCM Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations so could result in a reduced ability to meet customer policy is to prefer suppliers that demonstrate 2017 requiring relevant UK employers with over 250 requirements and grow the business.
Failure to responsible and sustainable business practices.
The employees to publicly disclose metrics on their gender execute strategy and a shortage of appropriate approach considers how suppliers address risks that pay gap on an annual basis.
A lack of diverse talent skills and talent are considered Group principal risks could impact their ability to supply the Group or and an inclusive working environment aligns with the refer to risks 3 and 6 on page 37. impact the Groups reputation on a risk prioritised Groups principal risks on failure to execute strategy, as basis.
These risks include bribery and corruption, does having a shortage of appropriate skills and talent The Groups approach is to identify, attract and human rights issues e. g. modern slavery, human and failure to comply with laws and regulations refer retain employees with the right skills and capabilities trafficking and conflict minerals, hazardous materials to risks 3, 6 and 11 on pages 37 to 39 respectively.
through strategic workforce planning, leadership legislation and resource efficiency.
Cobhams RSCM and functional competency development, employee policy is available at https: www.
com theThe Group strives to access the widest available engagement, diversity and inclusion, and competitive group  talent pool.
Cobhams policy is to encourage the reward practices.
The talent and engagement  policy-downloads.
development of a diverse workforce, to value each programmes are overseen by the Board.
employees differences and to provide everyone with In 2016, the Group published a Supplier Code of equal access to opportunities.
The Group looks to The Group has continued the development of Conduct on its website and expects all its suppliers ensure that its workforce is representative of society, functional career and competency frameworks for to comply with this code which can be found at its key customers and those of its suppliers.
its core roles, and expanded its leadership, graduate https: www.
com the-group suppliers and apprenticeship development programmes.
the end of 2016, the Group employed 4.2% 2015: 3.7% of its UK workforce as apprentices, graduates During 2016, Cobham invested in a third party and undergraduate placements.
It is on track to technology solution that allows it to map and meet its 5% Club commitment by 2019 categorise its supply base.
The solution will be used www.
to conduct Group-wide compliance campaigns in 2017 with respect to bribery and corruption, In addition, Cobham has continued to deploy its anti-slavery, human trafficking and conflict minerals.
Institute of Leadership and Management ILM This should significantly reduce the time required accredited Level 3 line management training to prepare regulatory disclosures and to respond programme throughout the year, and has also to customer information requests.
It will also assist successfully launched its Level 5 ILM management the Group in identifying suppliers that demonstrate development programme to support its senior responsible and sustainable business practices.
Cobham will develop key performance indicators to The Group uses voluntary staff turnover to measure the effectiveness of its responsible materials measure the effectiveness of its talent retention sourcing and supply chain management programme and employee engagement approach.
In 2016, in 2017. the Groups voluntary employee turnover was 9.7% 2015: 11.2%.
Cobham sponsored classroom at Bournemouth & Poole College, UK www.
com Cobham plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability continued Employee health and safety incident rate the number of cases resulting in way based on meeting regulatory compliance Cobham endeavours to create a culture and three or more days lost time per 100,000 full obligations as well as managing geographic and framework within which its employees can operate time equivalent employees, deteriorated to 414 industry sector risk.
in a safe, healthy and environmentally responsible 2015: 269.
There are a number of causes for this manner.
Failure to deliver consistently high standards performance deterioration, including improved In accordance with its legal obligations, the Group of health and safety could lead to accidents or reporting, and unfilled vacancies related to the loss will publicly report on its progress in its annual incidents resulting in prosecutions, fines, loss of some key SHE personnel.
The Group will look to Anti-slavery and Human Trafficking Statement of assets, business interruption and widespread improve this in 2017. which will be published annually on its website by reputational damage.
This aligns with the Groups the end of the first quarter, commencing in 2017: principal risks on significant events leading to The recordable injury and illness incident rate fell http: www.
com the-group corporatebusiness interruption and failure to comply with to its lowest level for more than seven years, 0.93  performance-datalaws and regulations refer to risks 9 and 11 on number of cases requiring more than first aid per policies performance-data.
100,000 full time equivalent employees compared to 1.2 in 2015.
Manual handling, minor hand injuries, Cobham believes that community issues are best The Groups workplace safety, health and slips and trips were the most common causes of addressed locally wherever possible.
Individual sites environment SHE programme, called Zero injury or illness that resulted in lost time during are encouraged to manage their operations and Harm, promotes a continuous improvement 2016.
This is broadly consistent with prior years.
activities with due consideration for the well-being health and safety culture that works to minimise of their neighbours and local communities.
In 2016 injuries and illnesses occurring in the workplace Further details on Cobhams SHE policy, the Group donated 269,933 2015: 228,976 to and promotes employee wellbeing.
Accountability management standards and performance are a range of good causes including armed services, for implementing the Groups SHE approach rests at www.
com the-group corporaterescue and health based charities, as well as local community interests.
It is Cobhams policy not to with line management, monitored by a steering  performance-datamake political donations.
is provided through a Group SHE Council comprising senior Business Unit SHE professionals under the Human rights Environmental dimension leadership of a dedicated Group SHE Senior Director.
Human rights issues are increasingly important to Environmental sustainability the way in which businesses are run.
There are Material environmental sustainability issues for Cobham enhanced its SHE programme during 2016. growing requirements to comply with legislation Cobham include: Newly documented SHE standards were rolled out and to respond to customer information requests Greenhouse gas GHG emissions from aircraft across the Group during the second half of the on human rights issues such as modern slavery fuel combustion in its Aviation Services business: year which set Group-wide expectations for risk e. g. Modern Slavery Act 2015 and conflict minerals GHG emissions from electricity and fuel use in management.
Sites are now measured annually e. g. US Dodd-Frank Act.
Compliance with applicable the lighting, heating, ventilation and cooling against the standards and the maturity of their laws and regulations and a changing contracting of its facilities and supply chain Group-wide: associated processes.
Sites are expected to achieve environment are principal risks refer to risks 11 and The impact of the size, weight and power a minimum target of 50% compliance.
Testing is 2 on pages 39 and 36 respectively.
efficiency of Cobham products upon the through means of self-assessment, peer-to-peer fuel burn and GHG emissions of customer auditing and external audit.
In terms of 2016 Cobham supports the broad principles contained aerospace platforms: and performance, 42 of 47 sites achieved or exceeded in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Business interruption at its facilities, and those the new 50% minimum compliance target against seeks to reflect these in the context of its business of its key suppliers due to adverse weather events the standards.
The remaining five sites are tasked activities wherever possible.
Cobham also respects e. g. flooding, wildfire.
with achieving this target by the end of 2017. the human rights of its employees as set down in All other sites are required to demonstrate the International Labour Organisation Declaration The materiality of these issues is expected to incremental year-on-year improvement against on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, such increase in the medium to longer term following site-specific targets.
as freedom of association, non-discrimination and the United Nations Framework Convention on the elimination of forced or compulsory child labour.
Climate Change Paris Agreement entering into The Group also uses a combination of leading and Cobham demonstrates its support and respect force on 4 November 2016 and the agreement lagging indicators to measure SHE performance for basic human rights through the principles and of the International Civil Aviation Organisations on a quarterly basis.
Leading indicators are used to policies contained in the COBC, the Corporate ICAO Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme drive correct behaviours, include safety training, risk Framework and the Groups policies and processes.
of International Aviation in October 2016.
The assessments, workplace inspections and incident Paris Agreement covers domestic aviation GHG reporting while lagging indicators are used to In 2016, the Group issued an Anti-Slavery and emissions, while the ICAO agreement covers measure effectiveness of the approach and these Human Trafficking Policy which opposes modern international aviation GHG emissions.
The ISO14001 include the incidence and severity of workplace slavery and human trafficking in all its forms.
environmental management standard has also been injuries and illness.
All the leading indicators on Cobham is committed to implementing and revised to include new and enhanced requirements.
training, risk assessment, workplace inspections and enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure near miss reporting met their targets in 2016.
With modern slavery does not take place anywhere in regard to lagging indicators there were again no its own operations or in its global supply chains.
fatalities in 2016 but the Groups major accident This is being undertaken in a risk prioritised Gender Diversity in the Cobham Workforce 2014 2016 2015 Females Total % Board of Directors 2 9 22% 2 10 20% 2 9 22% 1 Senior Managers 21 113 19% 20 135 15% 24 154 16% 2 Senior Managers 24 138 17% 21 144 15% 18 129 15% Total workforce 2,904 10,845 27% 3,649 12,658 29% 3,001 10,941 27% 1 Statutory definition 2 Cobham definition Vice Presidents and above www.
com Cobham plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP POR ORT T Failure to address environmental sustainability issues Reinforcing business continuity measures aligns with the Groups principal risks of changing and effective emergency response planning, market characteristics i. e. lack of differentiated in preparation for adverse weather events technology and innovative products relative to and natural disasters.
All the Groups principal competitors, failure to execute Group strategy manufacturing locations have maintained the i. e. misalignment with increasing environmental highly protected risk status through compliance expectations of investors, shortage of appropriate with insurers standards.
This enables Cobham skills and talent as well as failure to comply with to mitigate risks associated with extreme environmental laws and regulations refer to principal weather events such as flooding: and risks 2, 3, 6 and 11 on pages 36 to 39.
Aligning the Groups environmental standards to ISO14001 and encouraging business units The Group addresses environmental sustainability to certify to ISO14001 standards.
issues by: Striving to reduce environmental impacts from The Group measures and publicly discloses The Australian Aviation Services business achieved a 3.1kg aviation fuel per hour reduction in 2016. its operations wherever practicable: its greenhouse gas emissions strategy, risks, Reducing legacy aircraft fuel consumption and opportunities and performance on http: www.
transitioning to more fuel efficient aircraft e. g. cobhamsustainability.
aspx and introduction of the next generation jet-engine through the annual CDP investor climate change Embraer 190 aircraft in the closed charter and customer supply chain surveys.
The Australian operations of the Aviation Services Sector Cobham achieved an ALeadership rating from have set an annual aviation fuel consumption CDP based on its 2015 performance, placing it reduction target of 0.5 kg per hour for the aircraft among the best in the UK aerospace and under its operational control.
Data is reviewed defence sector.
During 2016, the business achieved a reduction of 3.1 kg fuel per hour, or a saving of Further details on the Groups GHG emissions can be 221 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
This is equivalent found in the Other Statutory Information report on to taking 43 cars off the road http: www.
com footprint : Including a Design for Environment approach to the Groups engineering strategy.
This approach seeks to reduce consumption wherever practicable with a corresponding reduction in environmental impacts: Reducing GHG emissions across a number of operating sites through site rationalisation and practical energy efficiency measures, including upgrades to lighting, heating, ventilation and air conditioning.
Facility energy intensity decreased by 18% in 2016 2015: 5% increase.
Factors contributing to this decrease include divestment of the energy intensive Metelics business, and implementation of energy efficiency measures.
As previously stated, the Groups focus will be on continuing to pursue reductions in GHG emissions that also reduce its operating costs: Summary of 2016 CR&S KPIs Target 2016 2015 2014 Key Performance Indicator % Employees trained on Code of Business Conduct 100 99.5% 100% 99.9% % Voluntary employee turnover 10% 9.7% 12.7% 9.9% % Female representation in total workforce N A 27% 29% 27% 1 Major accident incident rate 400 414 269 423 2 Facility energy intensity -10% -18% 5% 1% 1 Number of cases of work related accidents resulting in 3 or more lost work days per 100,000 full time employee equivalents 2 MWh per 1m revenue includes Aeroflex acquisition in September 2014 and restated in 2015 due to incorrect data reported for Hauppage, NY www.
com Cobham plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
