Governance and Directors Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE REPORT BUILDING ON OUR COMMITMENTS Health and safety is our number one operational priority and, as a Group, we regularly review our performance against our global policies and standards.
This helps to promote the consistent practical application of the safe operating practices that have been developed to safeguard the wellbeing of our colleagues and consumers.
Following five consecutive years of continuous performance improvement and a reduction in incidents, we have seen our results plateau this year.
Our analysis indicates that the success that we have had in embedding a culture of safety leadership and transparency in incident reporting in our less mature markets such as Asia Pacific has resulted in a marginal increase in reported incidents compared to last year.
However, we are not complacent and as we look to the future, we also reflect on the past and on those instances when things have not gone to plan.
Sadly, this year, one colleague in our North American business had a fatal accident as a result of a road traffic incident.
So that Being a responsible partner matters to us.
we can continue to make what we do safer, we have shared lessons learned from such a sad event with our colleagues We have made good progress in our efforts around the globe to try to prevent similar events from to create a more sustainable business, by happening again.
responding proactively to opportunities As we have strengthened our position, we believe that whilst continuing to progress established activities, we have reached a that arise and through pragmatic point where it is helpful to reassess our focus and performance investment.
I would like to thank my measures relating to some aspects of our strategy.
colleagues for their hard work and One area where we have chosen to refine our approach relates to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals SDGs, enthusiasm on the journey so far.
designed to help bring an end to poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change worldwide by 2030.
The On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present this years framework provides us with a common platform and language Corporate Responsibility Committee Report.
to talk to our stakeholders, including our clients, about our collective sustainability challenges and activities.
As a first This is my final statement as Chairman of the Corporate step, we have selected six of the SDGs which we believe resonate Responsibility Committee.
Having completed my nine year with our stakeholders and the material impacts of our business.
tenure as a non-executive director, I will step down from the In 2008, we introduced our first set of environmental KPIs Board and its committees at the conclusion of the Companys and since that time, we have been reporting our year on year AGM in February 2017. progression against the 2008 baseline.
However, in the coming year, to further reduce the environmental impact of our As a Group, we are fully engaged in delivering a holistic approach operations and to link in with our strategy to drive operational to corporate responsibility.
This is a complex area given the scale efficiency and reduce cost, we will transition to Science Based of the Group, its geographic spread, diversity of local cultures Targets to both target and measure our medium and long term and differences in country and business development: however, progress.
We will report the updated targets in our 2017 each year, we have continued to build steadily on our progress.
We are therefore proud to report that our sustainability activities have been recognised with our inclusion in Fortune Magazines As a Group, we recognise that providing opportunities for all Change the World list of 50 companies that have had a positive of our colleagues to develop provides access to a broader talent social impact through activities that are part of their core pool that will support our strategic focus on growth and we business strategy.
continue to improve opportunities for talented women to progress.
To help us achieve our ambition, we have introduced Maintaining a visible and transparent supply chain is important more KPIs around colleague diversity and inclusion that will, to us and to our customers.
With the progressive rollout of our in time, provide greater visibility of the progression of women Global Supply Chain Integrity Standards, it is our aim to have throughout the organisation.
industry leading standards that set the benchmark for others to follow.
52 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBILITIES More information about what we have been doing this year, our performance against the targets we set ourselves last year and The Committees primary responsibilities include health, our ambition for the future can be found below and on our safety and environmental practices, ethical business conduct, website at www.
the promotion of employee engagement and diversity as well as community investment.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of my Compass colleagues for their efforts to date.
I am extremely proud of what The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from has been achieved and it would not have been possible without the Director of Health, Safety and Environment and other senior their commitment and enthusiasm.
I also wish managers to ensure that progress is being made towards meeting Nelson every success as the new Chairman of the Committee.
the Groups specific corporate responsibility KPIs and in our ongoing corporate responsibility commitments.
We are dedicated to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and throughout the Annual Report there are examples of how we are endeavouring to achieve our strategic goals whilst underpinning our CR core values.
Susan Murray Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee For the purposes of the CA 2006, the Directors Report for the 22 November 2016 year ended 30 September 2016 comprises pages 34 to 57, pages 80 to 84 and the Directors Responsibilities statement on page 86.
In accordance with the CA 2006, the Board has elected to set out in the Strategic Report some of those matters required to be COMPOSITION disclosed in the Directors Report which it considers to be of The Corporate Responsibility CR Committee comprises importance to the Company.
These are asfollows: Susan Murray, Chairman, Paul Walsh, Richard Cousins, Johnny Thomson in succession to Dominic Blakemore from carbon emissions 1December 2015, Robin Mills Group HR Director, Mark likely future developments White General Counsel and Company Secretary, and all of risk management the non-executive directors in office at the date of this Report.
ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR The CR Committee meets at least twice a year.
The Committee During the year, the Committee addressed a number of met twice during the year and members attendance is set out in governance matters and in this regard we received updates the tablebelow.
from the General Counsel and Company Secretary on new MEETINGS ATTENDANCE developments in corporate governance and reporting.
The 1 NAME ATTENDANCE Committee considered recommendations to the Board Susan Murray 2 of 2 concerning these matters, examples of which can be found in the highlights on page 54.
Carol Arrowsmith 2 of 2 John Bason 2 of 2 We continue to make steady progress in advancing our 2 Dominic Blakemore 1 of 1 sustainability priorities, including our supply chain integrity 3 which continues to be a complex challenge for the Group given Stefan Bomhard 0 of 0 its geographic spread andscale.
Richard Cousins 2 of 2 Robin Mills 2 of 2 COMING YEAR Don Robert 2 of 2 Good corporate governance underpins all of our corporate 4 activities and the Committee will continue to offer comment Sir Ian Robinson 1 of 1 and advice to the Board on those areas in the business where Nelson Silva 2 of 2 governance might be enhanced.
In conjunction with the General 5 Johnny Thomson 1 of 1 Counsel and Company Secretary, the Committee will also keep Ireena Vittal 2 of 2 the Board up to date with the latest legislative changes and Paul Walsh 2 of 2 best practices in governance and reporting, and of any action required to be taken by the Company as a result of thechanges.
Mark White 2 of 2 During the next 12 months, the Committee will continue to 1.
The number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings which each director member was eligible toattend.
review CR commitments and targets to ensure they remain 2.
Stepped down as a member of the Committee on 1 December 2015. aligned to the business strategy.
Appointed to the Board on 5 May2016.
KPIs sets new challenges, but as a business we remain focused 4.
Stepped down from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on building on our achievements to date and we look forward to on 4 February2016.
reporting our progress in the 2017 AnnualReport.
Appointed to the Board on 1 December2015.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 53 Governance and Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Committee Report continued HIGHLIGHTS Health & Safety H&S Health and safety is our number one operational priority and is central Details of our H&S KPIs and our Overview to our business around the world.
The Committee continued to review year on year performance against progress against existing H&S performance measures, recommend targets at www.
new performance measures and to oversee recommended actions initiatives to ensure that we continue to make what we do safer.
Modern Slavery Act The Committee oversaw preparation and review of the Companys The Companys MSA 2015 MSA Statement MSA statement.
statement can be found at www.
Review of the Conducted the annual review of the Groups charitable donations See page 84 for details of charitable Groups Charitable policy to ensure that it continued to be fit for purpose.
donations made by the Group Donations Policy during the year.
EU Audit Directive Monitored and advised on changes to legislation concerning audit See pages 45 to 51 for more details.
committee composition, for example, the requirement that the audit committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates and changes to auditor responsibilities.
The Small Business, Monitored and advised on the requirement for companies to maintain As a PLC the Company is not Enterprise and a beneficial ownership register of persons with significant control itself required to maintain a PSC Employment PSC : and the Trust and Transparency reforms which include the register, but all of its UK registered Act 2015 SBEEA requirement for companies to publish pay information by gender subsidiaries have been required which includes five different types of information.
to do so with effect from 30June2016.
The Company will publish the five point gender pay data in due course as required by the SBEEA.
EU Market Abuse MAR came into force on 3 July 2016 and introduced a new regime for The Disclosure Committees terms Regulation MAR market abuse market manipulation and insider dealing alongside of reference adopted by the Board new rules on disclosure of inside information, insider lists and revised on 14 July 2016 can be found at obligations and restrictions on persons discharging managerial www.
responsibilities PDMRs and persons closely associated with them PCAs.
In conjunction with the Disclosure Committee, the Committee advised on changes required to be made to Company policies and processes as a result of the new legislation, for example, updating the Groups Share Dealing and Communications Codes, terms of reference of the Disclosure Committee and the introduction of a formal Market Soundings Policy.
Further embed the Over the past 12 months, the Group has continued to implement Group policies including the CBC CBC and Code of measures to maintain the profile of the CBC and Code of Ethics and Code of Ethics can be found Ethics with colleagues around the world.
We constantly challenge our leadership teams to implement new measures to refresh the understanding and importance of the CBC and Code of Ethics to our business, and we will continue to work with our businesses to further eliminate risk and reduce any vulnerabilities in our supply chain.
Introduction of Introduction of additional KPIs centred on our workforce and Details of these KPIs can be found new KPIs environmental performance which complement the existing suite of at www.
non-financial KPIs and ensure that we continue to meet the evolving requirements of our stakeholders.
Review of KPI The Committee reviewed the performance of existing KPIs over the Details of our performance performance over 12months to 30 September 2016. against the goals we set at the the year under review end of last year can be found at and consideration www.
of targets for the comingyear 54 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016
