High Medium Low IMPACT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REDUCING RISK AND DRIVING GROWTH The Groups strategy and approach to corporate responsibility CR are well aligned OUR PILLARS, PRIORITIES AND PROGRESS as we improve the business model to reflect OUR PILLARS OUR PRIORITIES OUR PROGRESS more sustainable practices.
CR is a keystone of OUR PEOPLE our commitment to provide the highest quality Global Lost Time Incident Frequency Our people are fundamental to 1 Since 2013, we have achieved a 29% WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY service to our customers.
Across the business, Rate our great service and reputation reduction in our Lost Time Incident Transparency around the processes the safety of our colleagues and consumers and we recognise their positive Frequency Rate performance.
However, and controls in place to ensure the is our number one operational priority and -29% contribution to our performance.
this year we have seen our performance safety and wellbeing of our people.
We are not complacent and supports our growth strategy, increases vs 2013 Ensuring our employees 2 EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT & continue to embed a strong safety trust and helps us attract the best talent.
are well trained, safe, motivated RETENTION leadership culture, as well as improved and productive is an essential Provide our people with training return to work programmes component of our business model.
Sadly, we had one work related fatality OUR CR STRATEGY Recognise and reward their as a result of a motor vehicle accident.
Each year, we review the issues which matter most great work.
As part of our commitment for to our business and stakeholders to help us better continuous improvement, we assess our key business risks and opportunities.
have shared lessons learned Through this process we have identified seven issues we believe materially impact our business and our RESPONSIBLE SOURCING relationships with our stakeholders see matrix below.
Global Food Safety Incident Rate Having a responsible supply chain 3 We have extended our third party audit PRODUCT SAFETY is important for us to deliver the programme to validate around the world Visibility around the ingredients that OUR MATERIAL IMPACTS -19% quality of food service which is a that all our markets are complying with we source for our operations.
key business driver for Compass the requirements of our Global Food vs 2013 4 SUPPLY CHAIN INTEGRITY 3 and of paramount importance to Safety Standards Ensure our supply chain is our customers.
2 Audit results identified that some of our 4 acting responsibly and humanely 7 developing markets, including India and 1 As a result of our actions across towards its workforce.
5 Singapore, required further support to our supply chain, we are able 5 6 CBC COMPLIANCE implement effective controls.
We have to build client and consumer Ensure the implementation of responded by investing in additional confidence, reduce potential our Codes of Business Conduct resource to help local teams embed risks and develop sustainable and Ethics.
Measure and report the required operational standards relationships.
concerns via the Speak Up whistleblowing programme.
Low Medium High HEALTH & WELLBEING PROBABILITY Number of sites offering healthy By pursuing our passion for 6 In our more developed markets including WELLBEING AND NUTRITION eating programmes wellbeing and nutrition, we the UK and US, we have introduced apps Promote simple product labelling In the following table we outline how our four CR pillars can help our consumers and such as My Fitness Pal, that enable and signposting to encourage our address these seven issues, why they matter to us and 21% employees adopt a more consumers to track their calorie and consumers to make healthy choices.
how they inform our priorities and activities balanced lifestyle.
nutritional intake, directly linked to our vs 2013 moving forward.
These apps help our consumers We support our clients to deliver to make healthier choices Through our strategic review, stakeholders and improved employee performance international clients have indicated their growing and satisfaction, encouraging interest in supporting the United Nations Sustainable client retention in our business.
Development Goals SDGs as agreed by world leaders in September 2015.
In response to this feedback, we have focused our attention on how our business activities can help us to deliver towards the SDGs at a global and local level.
See pages 32 and 33 for a more detailed narrative ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING on those specific SDGs where we believe we can make GHG intensity ratio As a leading food and support 7 We have extended the rollout ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING the most positive social impact.
services provider, we have a clear of our food waste measurement Transparency around our -16% responsibility to help protect and tracking technology solution environmental impacts, target the environment.
vs 2013 In sites where we have implemented setting and reporting to this solution, we have seen a reduction demonstrate progress.
We are reducing our impact in food waste of around 50% by implementing programmes Visit our website for more information about our In 2017, we will expand the pilot rollout that focus on the improved approach to CR and progress against performance to around 10 countries to assess the use of resources, helping us to viability of a wider geographic scope www.
com manage our costs and those of our clients more effectively.
30 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PILLARS, PRIORITIES AND PROGRESS OUR PILLARS OUR PRIORITIES OUR PROGRESS OUR PEOPLE Global Lost Time Incident Frequency Our people are fundamental to 1 Since 2013, we have achieved a 29% WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY Rate our great service and reputation reduction in our Lost Time Incident Transparency around the processes and we recognise their positive Frequency Rate performance.
However, and controls in place to ensure the -29% contribution to our performance.
We are not complacent and vs 2013 Ensuring our employees 2 EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT & continue to embed a strong safety are well trained, safe, motivated RETENTION leadership culture, as well as improved and productive is an essential Provide our people with training return to work programmes component of our business model.
Sadly, we had one work related fatality Recognise and reward their as a result of a motor vehicle accident.
As part of our commitment for continuous improvement, we 2013 2014 2015 2016 have shared lessons learned RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Global Food Safety Incident Rate Having a responsible supply chain 3 We have extended our third party audit PRODUCT SAFETY is important for us to deliver the programme to validate around the world Visibility around the ingredients that -19% quality of food service which is a that all our markets are complying with we source for our operations.
key business driver for Compass the requirements of our Global Food vs 2013 4 SUPPLY CHAIN INTEGRITY and of paramount importance to Safety Standards Ensure our supply chain is our customers.
Audit results identified that some of our acting responsibly and humanely developing markets, including India and As a result of our actions across towards its workforce.
Singapore, required further support to our supply chain, we are able 5 CBC COMPLIANCE implement effective controls.
We have to build client and consumer Ensure the implementation of responded by investing in additional confidence, reduce potential our Codes of Business Conduct resource to help local teams embed risks and develop sustainable 2013 2014 2015 2016 and Ethics.
HEALTH & WELLBEING Number of sites offering healthy By pursuing our passion for 6 In our more developed markets including WELLBEING AND NUTRITION eating programmes wellbeing and nutrition, we the UK and US, we have introduced apps Promote simple product labelling can help our consumers and such as My Fitness Pal, that enable and signposting to encourage our 17,576 21% employees adopt a more consumers to track their calorie and 16,900 consumers to make healthy choices.
nutritional intake, directly linked to our vs 2013 menus.
These apps help our consumers We support our clients to deliver to make healthier choices improved employee performance 14,496 and satisfaction, encouraging client retention in our business.
2013 2014 2015 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING GHG intensity ratio As a leading food and support 7 We have extended the rollout ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 7.3 services provider, we have a clear of our food waste measurement Transparency around our 6.7 -16% responsibility to help protect and tracking technology solution 6.3 environmental impacts, target 5.3 the environment.
We are reducing our impact in food waste of around 50% by implementing programmes In 2017, we will expand the pilot rollout that focus on the improved to around 10 countries to assess the use of resources, helping us to viability of a wider geographic scope manage our costs and those of our clients more effectively.
2013 2014 2015 2016 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 31 Corporate Responsibility continued WORKING TOWARDS THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS We believe that the SDGs provide a useful platform, and common language, upon which we can build new, and strengthen existing, global and local partnerships to UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS THE GLOBAL CHALLENGE COMPASS ROLE FOR EXAMPLE progress our sustainability activities.
GOAL 2 By 2050, the worlds population is Every year, we spend around Since 2014, our Imperfectly Delicious Of the 17 goals designed to help deliver the 2030 expected to increase by two billion.
Collaborating Produce programme run by our US End hunger, achieve food security vision for a more sustainable planet, we have identified At present almost 800 million of the with our supply chain to design business has used over 200,000 kgs and improved nutrition and promote six where we believe we can make the most positive worlds population are malnourished and deliver scalable and practical of imperfect fruit and vegetables that social impact.
In addition to these issue specific goals, sustainable agriculture and starving.
This means that solutions for food security and would otherwise have rotted in fields, we recognise the critical importance of working in the need to improve sustainable sustainable agriculture is therefore been sent to composting or landfill partnership, supported by SDG 17 Partnerships for agriculture will become increasingly vitally important to safeguard the for simply not meeting an artificial theGoals.
critical as the demand on natural future of our business.
PROGRESS THIS YEAR Our performance in the key sustainability indices is GOAL 3 Nutrition is essential for sustainable Each year, we serve over five billion Since 2010, we have worked towards of increasing interest to clients and investors.
By pursuing our passion for a target that 100% of our units will performed well in these indices this year, including our Ensure healthy lives and promote nutrition kills over three million wellbeing and nutrition, we are provide Balanced Choices or similar achievement in the Carbon Disclosure Project of a wellbeing for all at all ages children under five, whilst around committed to helping our consumers healthy eating programmes by 2016.
the world over two billion people and employees adopt a more This year, we have seen a further are overweight or obese.
improvement in our performance 67% vs 66% in 2015.
We have not met our stated target of 100% of units by 2016 and will continue to work towards achieving this through 2017.
Member of GOAL 5 Women and girls around the world Women make up 57% of our In 2016, our UK business launched struggle to exercise their rights, global workforce and 26% of our the Women in Food programme, to Achieve gender equality and empower all 3-0033-10-100-00 face discrimination, legal barriers global leadership team.
We are tackle the shortage of female chefs.
By women and girls and violence and receive unequal resolved to empower all our female 2020, we expect that 50% of the chefs Looking ahead, we will continue to engage our teams and pay for equal work.
employees as we know this leads in our UK workplace will be female.
stakeholders around the world to understand the issues to increases in productivity, which matter most and to identify opportunities to build organisational effectiveness stronger partnerships which address global and local and consumer satisfaction.
GOAL 8 The availability of decent work Our 500,000 employees are In Australia, we launched Project is a must for lasting, inclusive and fundamental to our great service and 1050 to support the recruitment Promote sustained, inclusive and economic growth, yet while the reputation.
Around the world we are of an additional 1,050 indigenous sustainable economic growth, full global labour force continues to grow, working with local communities to jobseekers into the Compass and productive employment and decent there are not enough jobs available, offer fair employment and great workforce by 2019. particularly amongst young people career opportunities.
work for all and indigenous communities.
GOAL 14 30% of the worlds fish stocks are Three words encapsulate our We have partnered with the overexploited, compromising their approach to sustainable seafood: MSC in the UK to develop the Good Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, ability to produce sustainable yields.
1 Avoid: by not serving seafood Fish Guide app, which encourages seas and marine resources for sustainable on the Marine Stewardship Councils everyone from chefs to consumers development MSC fish to avoid list: 2 Improve: to make more sustainable choices by buying more certified sustainable easily and quickly.
seafood each year: 3 Promote: the availability of responsibly sourced For a more detailed review of our fish to our consumers.
2015-2016 performance against targets, please visit www.
com GOAL 15 People need nature to thrive.
It is We are working across our supply Globally, we are a member of the particularly critical for sustainable chain, to ensure we source our Roundtables on Responsible Soy and Protect, restore and promote sustainable agriculture, yet deforestation, food and non-food products in a Responsible Palm Oil, whilst 17 of use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably desertification and loss of biodiversity sustainable manner with the least our top 20 countries have already manage forests, combat desertification, and and natural habitats are degrading possible impact on the environment.
established sustainable and ethical halt and reverse land degradation and halt fertile land and reducing sourcing programmes.
biodiversity loss 32 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS THE GLOBAL CHALLENGE COMPASS ROLE FOR EXAMPLE GOAL 2 By 2050, the worlds population is Every year, we spend around Since 2014, our Imperfectly Delicious expected to increase by two billion.
Collaborating Produce programme run by our US End hunger, achieve food security At present almost 800 million of the with our supply chain to design business has used over 200,000 kgs and improved nutrition and promote worlds population are malnourished and deliver scalable and practical of imperfect fruit and vegetables that sustainable agriculture and starving.
This means that solutions for food security and would otherwise have rotted in fields, the need to improve sustainable sustainable agriculture is therefore been sent to composting or landfill agriculture will become increasingly vitally important to safeguard the for simply not meeting an artificial critical as the demand on natural future of our business.
GOAL 3 Nutrition is essential for sustainable Each year, we serve over five billion Since 2010, we have worked towards development.
By pursuing our passion for a target that 100% of our units will Ensure healthy lives and promote nutrition kills over three million wellbeing and nutrition, we are provide Balanced Choices or similar wellbeing for all at all ages children under five, whilst around committed to helping our consumers healthy eating programmes by 2016. the world over two billion people and employees adopt a more This year, we have seen a further are overweight or obese.
GOAL 5 Women and girls around the world Women make up 57% of our In 2016, our UK business launched struggle to exercise their rights, global workforce and 26% of our the Women in Food programme, to Achieve gender equality and empower all face discrimination, legal barriers global leadership team.
By women and girls and violence and receive unequal resolved to empower all our female 2020, we expect that 50% of the chefs pay for equal work.
to increases in productivity, organisational effectiveness and consumer satisfaction.
seafood each year: 3 Promote: the availability of responsibly sourced fish to our consumers.
GOAL 15 People need nature to thrive.
biodiversity loss Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 33
