SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Computacenter is committed to building a business that will stand the test of time.
We have therefore thoroughly reviewed what we do, and believe we make the most difference by focusing on three areas WINNING diversity and inclusion: future talent and ethical business.
This focus will help us to build a business for the long term, which provides jobs for young people and opportunities for those who need them most, in an environment that allows everyone to contribute TOGETHER and perform at their best.
We also have a global Corporate Social Responsibility CSR policy, which outlines our approach to our broader responsibilities.
More information on our CSR policy and related activities during the year can be found on our website.
Our environmental performance is described in this section of the report.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION PEOPLE MATTER Alongside our services and innovations, our people are a major source of competitive advantage for us.
We therefore continually review our approach to attracting and retaining talented individuals.
In 2016, we looked closely at what diversity means to us and why inclusion matters.
We believe that: gender-diverse companies are more likely to outperform their competitors: ethnically-diverse organisations are also more successful: a business with a rich mix of backgrounds and views stimulates innovation, better mirrors its customers and attracts the best talent: and promoting diversity is the right thing to do.
We want Computacenter to be an inclusive and ethical employer with a diverse, talented and motivated workforce.
As there is no one better than our people for setting our diversity and inclusion agenda, we created the People Panel in 2016.
This is a steering group of more than 20 people from across our territories and business areas.
They all have a passion for making the Company the most welcoming it can be, to the talented individuals who work for us and those who would like to.
The People Panel are our advisors, tasked with setting our strategic direction, and holding us to account, in these important areas.
Aside from the People Panels strategic work, a huge amount of We want Computacenter to be an inclusive activity goes on every day to promote diversity and inclusion.
For example, we are looking closely at what it is like to be a woman in and ethical employer, with a diverse, the IT industry and at Computacenter in particular.
We have held talented and motivated workforce.
roundtable discussions with female employees and taken part in external programmes such as Every Woman Counts with TechUK.
In our German operation, we have appointed a senior female member of our sales team to lead on this topic.
In addition, we have begun analysing our gender pay gap, ahead of the new regulations coming into effect in 2018.
Barry Hoffman Group Human As our workforce comes from every corner of the world, we face the Resources Director challenge of managing a wide range of cultural differences.
We take this seriously and our new managers undertake a European how we work course, to prepare them for this.
In the UK, we have recently introduced our Keep Calm, its only Banter workshops, demonstrating our commitment to fostering an inclusive culture.
Gender split across the Group Male Female Directors of the Company 77.8% 22.2% Senior managers of the Group 80% 20% Employees in the Group 76.7% 23.3% 28 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Our focus on diversity starts before the recruitment process begins.
ETHICAL BUSINESS We have worked closely with our recruitment partners to examine In 2015, we launched our Group Ethics policy.
It sets out our every stage of the process.
For example, we: commitment to observing the highest ethical standards in our check that we advertise our jobs in publications and on websites business conduct, explains what we expect from our employees and with a diverse audience: how they can report any concerns that they have.
During 2016, we make sure the language we use in our adverts and job made progress towards outsourcing our whistleblowing process by descriptions is not discriminatory and appeals to as wide a range introducing an independent, third-party provider.
Our intention is to of applicants as possible: and launch this early in 2017. have a guaranteed interview scheme for disabled applicants inthe UK.
We regularly review all our policies and processes in order to identify areas for continuous improvement and assess our overall compliance.
For us, inclusion goes beyond the people who work for Computacenter.
In the past 12 months, we have reviewed our Anti-bribery and We also support groups who need help to enter the workplace.
Our UK Corruption policies and processes throughout Computacenter.
Having business is involved with the Career Transition Partnership, which, done this, we are confident in our internal processes and compliance.
as the Ministry of Defences official provider, offers resettlement Anti-bribery and Corruption training is an integral part of our induction support, career transition advice and training for people leaving Her process across the Group.
Through the Herts Chamber of Commerce, we have linked up with Muscle Help Foundation to support five young We have also begun our due diligence and risk assessment processes adults with muscular dystrophy.
We will run two days of workshops in preparation for writing our Modern Slavery Transparency in Supply in Hatfield to show that their disability does not need to be a barrier Chain Statement.
This has involved us working with areas of the to them in the workplace.
We also run charitable giving programmes business that play a role in our Supply Chain.
At Computacenter we are proud of our people and never forget that FUTURE TALENT they make us what we are today.
Developing the next generation of talent is crucial for Computacenter and for the industry.
We have a range of industrial placement PROTECTING OUR PEOPLE HEALTH & SAFETY programmes, graduate programmes, sales associate programmes It is the Groups policy that, as far as is reasonably practicable, a and apprenticeships across the business.
For example, our Global working environment is created and maintained which does not pose Support Desk is the largest employer of apprentices in our UK an undue risk to the health and safety of our employees, customers, operation, having hired 123 apprentices over the last 18 months, with suppliers, sub-contractors, visitors and members of the public.
more than 60 joining us on a permanent basis in the last six months Our approach to health and safety is based on the identification and alone.
We continually look to develop all our programmes.
The prevention of all incidents, particularly those involving personal injury and damage to equipment or property, Our Future Talent team does outstanding work in growing our own remains a priority and additionally near-miss investigations are new talent.
Their activities range from offering work experience to carried out to avoid similar occurrences and to maintain the efficient very young students, to hosting students during their placement year, operation of the business.
All of our employees are made aware of the to supporting those starting their careers as part of our graduate and importance of health and safety and contribute to the maintenance apprenticeship schemes.
To give an indication of the scale of their of a safe working environment.
We promote consultation between work, in October 2016 alone, the team attended 18 careers fairs and employees and managers concerning matters of health and safety engaged with more than 3,000 students.
and provide the necessary finance, equipment, personnel and time to ensure its implementation and maintenance.
One area of focus in our future talent work is attracting young women into Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths STEM careers.
We During 2016, we have seen a solid health and safety performance have developed an outreach programme to address the subject in driven by an established Health & Safety Management System.
We also have two Women in Science We have continued to maintain the Accident Incident Rate AIR, and Engineering WISE Ambassadors who are trained to run internal which is the number of accidents per 1,000 employees, across our and external People like me training.
This programme helps young main operating geographies to below 2.8 and in the UK and France, women to identify their skills and understand their career options.
the Accident Frequency Rate AFR, which is the number of accidents In addition, two members of out HR Team are STEMNET Ambassadors, per 100,000 working hours, to below 0.9. who go out through the STEM network and support on a range of different activities and events.
Average results for 2016 AIR AFR More generally, we link with schools in the area around our head office in Hatfield to offer students work experience, employability UK 2.74 0.44 workshops and interview training.
We are working with a local school Germany 1.54 0.88 through the year-long Educational Ambassador Scheme, which will France 0.83 0.46 include helping the school to improve its educational employability curriculum.
We also have three Inspire the Future Ambassadors, who link to schools nationally and engage in a range of events from speaking about apprenticeship programmes to how to apply to be a school governor.
29 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Computacenter plc mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting Methodology Recent UK-based emission reduction projects Global GHG emissions data for period: We have used the main requirements of the Continued operation of 4 Voltage Optimisation 1 January to 31 December 2016.
GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Units saving 7-10% of electricity usage Reporting Standard revised edition.
Emissions Metric Tonnes of CO e 2 Emission factors used are from the UK Continued investments in new technology Year 2016 2015 Governments Conversion Factors supplied helping reduce emissions in datacenters.
electricity used in the datacenters is circa Scope 1 3,304 3,565 57% of the total for the UK.
These datacenters Scope 2 22,214 21,230 Based on external consultants Excel host customers Information Technology in Total 25,518 24,795 spreadsheets were further developed the form of servers thus reducing their carbon internally to include the full requirements footprint however, this increases the to collate the additional emissions such emissions for Computacenter as we become Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and refrigerants as refrigerants.
usage Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling This activity has been conducted as part of Investment was also made in the replacement purchased for own use our UK Environment Management System of more efficient gas boiler systems and air registered to ISO 14001:2004 EMS 71255. conditioning at the UK Hatfield and London Groups chosen intensity measurements: offices.
Emissions as reported above are 7.86 metric Group properties included in this report are all tonnes per m value of Group revenue: current locations in the UK, Germany, France, The UK warehouse continued to have more 2015: 8.11, a decline of 3.1%.
Belgium, Spain, South Africa, USA, Switzerland, lighting replaced with energy efficient LED Malaysia and Hungary.
Emissions as reported above 1.80 metric tonnes per Group employee 2015: 1.92, We have reported on all of the emission Limitations to data collection a decline of 6.25%.
sources required under the Companies Act Less than 5% of emissions were estimated or 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports based on an average energy usage per square Regulations 2013. foot of space occupied.
Limitations to data collection Less than 5% of emissions were estimated or based on an average energy usage per square foot of space occupied.
Scope 1 2 This data is available for the UK and is reported annually in the Carbon Disclosure Project reports for both the Investors & Supply Chain requirements.
Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC The UK continues to fully comply with this scheme registered as a participant.
CRC8804716 Packaging Waste Regulation Via the compliance company Paperpak, the UK are registered as a distributor of product ensuring full compliance since 2000.
ISO 14001:2004 The EMS of the UK has been registered to this standard since 2003.
EMS 71255 Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS Computacenter complied with this new law by submitting our energy report which covers the period 5 December 2015 to 4 December 2019.
The chart below shows how the emissions are split by country The chart below shows how the UK Energy Usage is divided showing the percentage: by percentage: Emissions 25,518 Metric Tonnes of CO e 2 Belgium 1.26% Datacenter 57% France 2.43% Facilities 43% Germany 33.2% Hungary 0.48% USA 1.05% Malaysia 0.45% South Africa 7.09% Spain 1.77% Switzerland 0.42% UK 51.85% 30
