Corporate Responsibility CR Committee report Dear Shareholder This is the first report of the CR Committee the Committee.
Committee members and independence I chair the Committee and my fellow Committee members are Rick Anderson and Paul Moraviec.
From time to time other members of the Board may be invited to attend all or part of any Committee meeting if it is deemed appropriate.
Key areas of responsibility The Committees key areas of responsibility include to: Define the Companys obligations under the headings of economic responsibility, community responsibility and environmental responsibility, and to oversee the Companys conduct in the context of these obligations.
Approve a strategy for discharging these responsibilities in a manner which commands respect and confidence.
Monitor relevant external trends and assess how these may affect the Companys reputation or its ability to operate, and How we conduct ourselves review how best to address these trends.
Oversee the creation of appropriate policies and supporting measures and oversee their implementation across the earning trust, behaving Group.
Monitor the Groups engagement with external stakeholders responsibly and with and other interested parties.
Ensure that appropriate communications policies are in place and working effectively to build and protect the Groups integrity and doing what reputation both internally and externally.
we say we will do is Detailed responsibilities are set out in the Committees terms of reference which can be found at www.
essential to deliver longActivities of the Committee Between the year-end and signing of this Annual Report the term sustainable returns Committee: Reviewed and approved our high-level CR strategy which will for shareholders.
be implemented on a phased basis over the next three years.
Reviewed and approved the draft CR disclosure for the year ended 31 December 2016, which is included in the Strategic report on pages 44 to 49.
On behalf of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Sir Christopher Gent Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 17 March 2017 62ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
