Corporate responsibility Strong stakeholder relationships are key Behaving responsibly is integral to to delivering our Purpose, Vision and Mission, which are detailed on the inside front cover of this Annual Report.
We will only Our primary focus is helping people with deliver long-term, sustainable financial chronic health conditions, many of whom use our products every day.
Our success depends on them actively choosing our performance by understanding and products and services, and then staying with us to help them manage their responding to the needs and concerns condition.
We strive to ensure our products and services are safe, effective of our stakeholders, and by earning and affordable.
What we deliver for customers is critical but we must also focus on how we deliver it.
is essential if we are to deliver sustainable returns for our shareholders over the long term.
We must: Avoid creating unacceptable impacts as a result of what we do, either directly or indirectly.
Deal honestly and transparently with those involved in the procurement of our products.
Meet, and strive to exceed, the requirements of the various bodies which regulate our sector.
Treat our employees fairly, and ensure there are opportunities for all to develop their skills and experience.
Never exploit the people who work in our supply chain.
Minimise any negative impacts on the environment arising from our products and operational activities.
Enhance the lives of the people in the communities where we operate.
44ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Our management approach Initial assessment of materiality Our general approach to Corporate We have carried out an initial assessment of materiality and aim to validate this with Responsibility CR is characterised by external experts during 2017. two imperatives.
Firstly, to understand 1 the needs of our stakeholders, and to be 2 transparent in reporting our progress in 3 addressing those needs.
Secondly, to 5 4 always behave ethically and to do nothing 6 which might undermine our reputation 9 8 and the trust placed in us.
To support this 7 12 11 10 approach and, reflecting the importance 14 13 15 we place on this topic, we are 18 16 strengthening our governance 19 17 arrangements and developing a new CR 20 strategy.
Governance Lower Higher Importance to ConvaTec We have formed a Board committee focused on CR.
Product safety, patient user safety 11.
Access to healthcare e. g. affordability 2.
Bribery and corruption ethical marketing 12.
Economic contribution inc Tax Policy oversee the direction of our CR 3.
Product lifecycle impacts programme, approve external reports 4.
Animal testing and proposed objectives, and receive 5.
Waste management recycling reports on progress and performance.
Energy use and greenhouse gases 7.
Local community engagement After the year-end, the CR Committee 8.
Human rights in the supply chain 1 8.
Supplier div ersit y approved our first high-level CR strategy 9.
Environmental issues in the supply chain which will be implemented on a phased 10.
Water management basis over the next three years.
Further information on this important programme will be disclosed in the coming period.
Further information about our CR Committee is provided on page 62.
Issue identification In developing our CR strategy we have identified a number of areas relevant to CR strategy framework our stakeholders through a process of internal consultation and review of What we do external information.
These areas, which reflect the key socio-economic, human rights and environmental issues related to our activities, are detailed on pages 46 Delivering for to 49.
We have grouped our CR issues customers under the headings in the illustration on the right.
In the future we aim to publish, and report against, commitments established under each of these Making a socio-economic headings.
contribution We are stepping up our support for a number of external initiatives and have How we indicated where we believe our do it programme will contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals SDGs.
Working Enabling Conserving responsibly our the with people planet partners Behaving ethically and transparently Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc45 Importance to Lower Stakeholders Higher Corporate responsibility continued What we do: Delivering for customers The people who use our products are our primary stakeholders and central to our Purpose.
To ensure that we design a seamless user experience that anticipates and addresses their physical and emotional needs, it is critical that we listen to them.
We do this in a variety of ways, including through focus groups, anthropological studies, key opinion sessions, and surveys.
We also engage with healthcare professionals including nurses and clinicians who select products for Developing safe products is critical, and patients, and directly with our customers our quality engineers work alongside our What we do: via our specialist customer service nurses research and development teams to and our home delivery businesses such Making a socio-economic ensure we exceed stringent quality and as 180 Medical and Amcare.
The contribution regulatory requirements, and meet our feedback from all of these engagement We generate economic value for a range responsibilities to users and customers.
channels is fed into our innovation of stakeholders and this is illustrated in We operate extensive quality process and is used to develop our new the table below.
management system programmes technologies and enhance our existing focused not just on the efficacy of the products.
The expansion of our direct-toDirect economic value generated products we supply, but also on the consumer initiatives such as our me and distributed constituent materials, the manufacturing programme see page 35 is also helping environment, and the supply chain that strengthen our understanding of, and 2016 2015 supports this.
The success of our $m $m build our relationships with, our approach has been recognised by our customers.
Direct Economic most important audience the people Value Generated $1,688.3 $1,650.4 who use our products.
The 2016 We are increasingly trusted with Economic Value Corporate Reputation of Medical Device customer data.
To help strengthen our Distributed Companies survey captured the views of 1 management of personal data we have Operating costs $801.3 $810.2 582 patient groups from around the introduced a Global Data Privacy Policy Employee Wages world.
Of the 33 companies ranked, we and online training programme and Benefits $528.9 $414.9 were rated the number one company completed by over 2,900 employees, Payments to overall and were placed top in three of 2 which set out the principles by which we Providers of Capital $233.8 $258.0 the seven categories patient safety, high operate.
From time to time the Group Payments to quality products and transparency, and 3 has experienced theft and inadvertent Governments $49.4 $48.6 second in two others patient centricity distribution of data which has led to the Community Investments $0.2 $0.1 and provision of information to patients.
Group reporting such incidents to the Economic Value relevant authorities.
During 2015 we Retained $74.7 $118.6 Many people rely on our products every completed an initial third party review of day.
To ensure that their access to our 1.
Operating costs exclude depreciation, our approach, and will be broadening and products is not disrupted we adopt amortisation, impairment charges and asset writedeepening our engagement on this topic proactive business continuity planning offs.
Payments to providers of capital is interest paid which also helps reduce the risks to our on long-term debt.
Payments to governments include corporate The detailed understanding of our income taxes, sales taxes, real estate taxes and customers needs also helps ensure that We are not aware of any breaches of other taxes, but exclude employer portion of payroll our products remain at the leading edge taxes, as they are included in employee wages and product-related regulations including of innovation, as demonstrated by our benefits.
packaging and labelling regulations in multi-award winning advanced wound 2016 which resulted in fines or care products see page 37.
Some To support transparency we have made prosecutions.
Please also refer to Note products, such as our fecal management our tax policy available on our website.
system products, not only provide direct benefits to patients, but are also We are also reliant on the goodwill of the We are working to support the following designed to help protect the broader Sustainable Development Goals: local communities where we operate, patient community, and save health and from which we draw a large budgets, by reducing the risk of infection proportion of our workforce.
of our manufacturing facilities have community engagement projects and we aim to broaden and enhance these over the coming years.
46ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 As at 31 December 2016 our gender diversity statistics were as follows: How we do it: Male Female Enabling our people Our people are key to our success.
At 31 Total Number % Number % 1 December 2016, across our global Board 9 9 100% 0% operations we employed 8,524 people 2 Executive Committee 10 9 90% 1 10% and together we are responsible for Management bands 334 223 67% 111 33% ensuring that we fulfill our Purpose and Other employees 8,178 2,821 35% 5,357 65% deliver our strategy.
Guiding Principles on Business and 2.
The Executive Committee was established after the year-end, in February 2017.
Full details of the Executive Committee membership is provided on page 14 and 15.
For the purposes of this table, the Chief Executive Human Rights, and the increasing focus Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are included as members of the Board.
on human rights by some of our key customers, we introduced our Human Rights and Labour Standards Policy Currently we are developing a single To create a positive collaborative working during the year.
Over 1,300 people have global Diversity and Inclusion Policy environment and to ensure that completed the related online training.
which will be rolled out across the Group everyone is aware of the contribution This Policy builds on our existing Code of in 2017. they can make in fulfilling our Purpose, it Ethics and Business Conduct which is important that all employees are provides further guidance on workplace We are committed to investing in our engaged and motivated and have issues such as equal opportunities, people and their development.
As well as opportunities to openly share feedback anti-harassment and dignity at work.
fostering an environment that and ideas.
Our engagement with encourages and rewards success, we run employees occurs through a number of It is important that our businesses a number of training and development channels, including regular updates include people from different programmes which help our employees posted on our Group-wide intranet, town backgrounds and cultures who have progress their careers and ensure that hall meetings in all our operations, diverse skills and experience and we are we have a good pipeline of talent with updates from our CEO and other committed to providing equal the right skills and experience across the members of the leadership team, and opportunities for all potential and Group.
During 2016 we introduced a through dialogue with relevant union existing employees in a working participative virtual global learning representatives and Works Councils.
At environment which is free from programme and a formal mentoring the end of the year approximately 50% discrimination.
programme which will be rolled out of employees at our manufacturing across all our businesses during the locations were covered by collective course of 2017.
In addition during 2017, bargaining arrangements.
We also to support our talent pipeline and regularly conduct employee pulse succession planning, a formal global surveys that focus on specific issues.
leadership and management development programme will be During 2016 we reviewed our approach introduced across the Group and we will to Health and Safety H&S and as a continue to provide bespoke support and result introduced 22 new H&S policy training for high potential leaders in line standards across our businesses, with their individual development plans together with appropriate training.
Currently, we are collating H&S performance data across our We have a formal performance manufacturing operations and this will be management process which measures expanded to cover other parts of our performance against objectives and business during 2017.
We are currently demonstration of our values and auditing our performance against our behaviours which feeds into merit and new policy standards and this work will bonus differentiation.
Twice a year be completed in 2017.
There have been non-shop floor employees participate in no fatalities across the Group, and data performance and development reviews on Recordable Incidents and Lost Time with their manager, to provide and Injury Rates are provided below.
receive feedback and agree their future 2016 2015 career goals.
Total recordable incidents 35 40 Recordable incident rate 0.56 0.65 Total lost time injuries 16 31 Lost time injury rate 0.26 0.50 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc47 Corporate responsibility continued substances in our products, as well as considering any emerging public and How we do it: How we do it: scientific concerns.
For example, in 2014, Conserving the planet Working responsibly although not required by regulation, we It is well established that negative with partners announced a target to replace the impacts on the natural environment To meet our customers needs we rely on plasticiser DEHP used to soften often bring associated health and social a series of partners, including our PVC-based plastics in certain products, implications for people.
Therefore it is suppliers and the distributors of our with DEHT, which is free of health important that we manage and minimise products.
Our goal is to work concerns.
Certain CCC brands are now our negative impact on the environment collaboratively, as far as regulation and available DEHP-free and, from 2017, less for the benefit of wider society.
In line commercial practicality allow, and build than 2% of our product portfolio by with our strategy we must operate as stable, long-term relationships.
At the same time we must ensure that Our product development processes During the year, we issued a new our partners are behaving responsibly include assessment of the safety of the environmental policy and our and are working to the same standards new materials compositions, and their performance against this standard is that we set ourselves.
During the year we sourcing and manufacturing routes, currently being audited.
Each of our developed and launched a new Supplier along with data on any potential manufacturing sites has an Environment, Code of Conduct which draws on environmental impact.
During 2017, we Health and Safety Manager and our two International Labour Organization aim to enhance these processes further UK facilities are certified as being in conventions and the Principles of the to assess and characterise the broader compliance with ISO14001, the United Nations Global Compact.
New environmental sustainability of materials international environmental suppliers are required to sign and abide used in product manufacture.
by the Supplier Code of Conduct, and it is introduced with existing suppliers as As noted below, our new Supplier Code Whilst our focus has been on better contracts are renewed.
We are of Conduct contains reference to management of our impacts, we have developing a risk assessment and environmental protection and we will be not been reporting performance monitoring process and will be developing our supplier assessment externally.
This year, we have collated implementing this in the coming year.
process further during the course of data in relation to our direct and indirect The first supplier has now been assessed 2017. energy consumption, and Scope 1 and 2 against the Supplier Code of Conduct.
greenhouse gas emissions, only in We are working to support the following relation to our manufacturing operations.
Sustainable Development Goals: This approach to supplier screening will We intend to expand the scope of our encompass steps to help identify reporting to include other locations, and potential or actual risks relating to human environmental aspects such as waste trafficking and modern slavery.
A management, during the course of 2017. statement relating to the California Supply Chains Act can be found on our We have also stepped up our work website.
relating to the whole life cycle impacts of our products.
This includes reviewing and, where necessary, strengthening our compliance with European Union regulations relating to chemical Per unit of revenue $m Total direct energy consumption gWh 19.5 Total indirect energy consumption gWh 66.5 Total Energy consumed gWh 86.0 0.051 Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions tonnes CO e 3,717 2 Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions tonnes CO e 25,802 2 Total GHG emissions tonnes CO2e 29,519 17.5 Note re disclosure of greenhouse gas emissions GHGs This is our first year of reporting on GHGs and we recognise further work is required to bring our disclosures in line with good practice.
No external assurance has been commissioned and there is limited benchmarking data available to provide additional comfort on accuracy.
The current disclosure includes Scope 1 and 2 emissions relating to all manufacturing locations in operation at the end of the year.
This year we are not reporting on Scope 3 emissions.
Emissions derive mainly from the consumption of natural gas and electricity to heat, cool and power the manufacturing facilities and associated administration offices on the sites in question.
No renewable energy is generated at these locations.
The disclosure does not include any sites where manufacturing does not occur e. g. sales offices, or any emissions derived from facilities that closed during the year.
Conversion factors have been obtained from recognised and respected sources, including guidance developed by the UK Government, and from the International Energy Agency.
In 2017, we will be working to improve the scope of our GHG disclosure and to set a reliable baseline for future improvements.
48ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 In the US, through our supplier diversity We have introduced a third partyprogramme, we strive to partner with managed whistle-blowing solution to How we do it: Small, Minority and Women-Owned enable employees and third parties to Behaving ethically and businesses.
In 2016, nearly 20% of our both seek advice and guidance on ethical transparently US supplier spend was with these issues, and also to report suspected Earning trust and behaving ethically and categories.
breaches of our Code of Ethics and with integrity is one of our core values.
This is the right thing to do and protects Our policy is to perform testing on our reputation.
We have an extensive animals only when this is mandated by To our knowledge, in 2016, we were not compliance programme with priorities regulatory authorities or when we subject to any fines or prosecutions set through a risk assessment process, cannot support a product or product relating to human rights, environmental, further details of which are set out on development through the available health and safety, or other material page 33.
We are also an active laboratory and or human clinical data.
Please also see Note 21 to the participant in many of the local medical When we are mandated to perform Financial Statements.
device trade associations of the testing on animals, or when this is our countries in which we operate and we only option to further a product As highlighted above we place played an instrumental role in drafting development which will advance clinical tremendous importance on listening to the Code of Ethical Business Practice for practice, we ensure that such testing is our customers and being transparent our European industry association, performed in accordance with Good with them.
We believe the benefits of MedTech Europe.
Laboratory Practices and in accordance active engagement extends across all our with Animal Care & Use requirements stakeholder groups, and being Our legal and compliance function works and guidelines, using only reputable and transparent about all aspects of our with the Audit and Risk Committee and audited contract research organisations.
performance is a vital part of building the Board.
Further details are set out on strong, long term relationships.
This approach provides visibility We must behave responsibly when our commitment to transparency we to our leadership regarding compliance marketing our products to customers intend to publish a separate, more initiatives and ensures positive tone at which include large reimbursement detailed, CR report for the next financial the top with respect to adherence to organisations, distributors, hospitals and, year and aim to report in accordance the Companys ethical principles.
The risk of with the core requirements of the Global acting unethically is heightened where Reporting Initiative GRI Standards.
We have developed a Code of Ethics and we engage a third party organisation to Business Conduct, and a series of Global We are working to support the following sell or promote our products.
To mitigate Sustainable Development Goals: Policies which cover a range of business this risk our compliance team conducts conduct and compliance issues, focusing due diligence on the selection of particularly on bribery and corruption distributors as well as delivering both risks.
We strive to ensure that all relevant online and live compliance training employees complete the necessary programmes to distributor staff, based training, and completion is carefully on our Global Third Party Compliance monitored in 2016, over 3,000 of Manual.
In selected markets, we review relevant employees completed the Code our existing distributors by exercising our of Ethics training.
audit rights in such contracts.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc49
