com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PLACES PEOPLELOVE We are passionate about creating places where people aspire to live, that deliver enduring value and where people feel a true sense of belonging.
From the character of the homes we build to the Sustainability to strive for planning of environments and considerate use of  performance materials, our creative approach to placemaking improvement, thereby reducing the ensures we have a positive impact on all those Groupsenvironmental impacts.
who live in and around our developments.
Community to promote and build Wecreate places people love.
STRATEGY Positively, we continue to make good progress We contribute to the creation and improvement inachieving our sustainability objectives of residential communities and workplaces in an withan96per cent achievement in 2016 environmentally and socially responsible, sensitive 2015:90percent.
In addition we made 2.5m and sustainable manner.
To achieve this the Groups  savings during the reporting corporate policies and values are implemented period.
Our five-year track record can be found throughout the business at all stagesof the inthe Groups Sustainability Report 2016 96% development process, ensuring wecontinue to www.
com about-us manage our sustainability impactsand future-proof who-we-are sustainability.
of our sustainability objectives our business.
Ourkey policiesinclude: were achieved in 2016 In addition to the management of material climate change: business risks and uncertainties by the Group andits divisions, an Environmental Aspects, environmental: Impacts and Legislation Register is maintained health and safety: atGroup level and is used by the divisions DESIGN toinform and manage project risks.
Overall We believe in a design-led approach, creating visually procurement: responsibility for risk is managed by the Board attractive and innovative homes whilst ensuring quality management: and and our Risk Management Committee.
Oversight the quality and practicality of the completed of more detailed aspects ismanaged through product.
The Group is committed to adding value sustainable development.
theHealth and Safety and Environmental and through placemaking and long-term partnerships.
To deliver high levels of financial and sustainable Quality Committees.
We continue to hold more Housing Design Awards returns for our shareholders, our sustainability than any other developer.
strategy focuses on four key priority objectives: OUR SUSTAINABILITY In February 2016 the RICS published professional This is our 16th year of sustainability reporting Management to apply sound social, guidance on Placemaking and Value.
The research the longest in our sector.
Since 2000 we have environmental and quality management found that placemaking does add commercial value.
received 360 awards for our design and sustainability systems across the Groups operations.
However, there is considerable disparity inthe size practices, which highlights our approach and of the premium, of between 5 and 56 per cent.
Social and ethical to strive for continuous commitment to sustainable development.
Thisalso varies between different dwelling types.
health and safety improvement and to Through regenerating existing neighbourhoods Greater premiums are achievable in areas that already promote social and ethical best practice.
orcreating new communities, weare developing have higher local embedded new-build values.
places that are socially inclusive and have lower environmental impacts than existing areas.
OUR CREATIVE APPROACH TO PLACEMAKING ENSURES WE HAVE A POSITIVE IMPACT ON ALL THOSE WHO LIVE IN AND AROUND OUR DEVELOPMENTS.
ACTON GARDENS COMMUNITY CENTRE 32 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC STRATEGIC REPORT Our values ASPIRATIONAL We build homes people aspire to live in and a company people aspire to be part of.
SUSTAINABLE We ensure the long-term future of our developments, our people and our Company through our thinking and approach.
PARTNERING We collaborate with our partners to achieve shared goals, mutual success and places of exceptionalquality.
INTEGRITY We deliver our promises and hold ourselves to a high standard of personal conduct.
The findings reflect the Groups strategy of For the 13th consecutive yearCountrysides developing in the right locations with design Accident Incident Rate AIR continues to be quality at the heart of our approach.
Countryside lower than the Industryaverage.
was involved in three of the five featured schemes During the reporting period it averaged 305 and each demonstrated strong uplifts in values 2015: 265 reportable incidents per 100,000 compared to other homes in the locality.
RESPECTFUL employees, compared with the National Incident We respect everyone we work To ensure that our business model is fit Rate of 421 2015: 412. with, the communities which forpurpose, we hold a range of corporate Awareness and communication wedevelop and the future we memberships and participate in a range of ofsustainability issues contribute to building.
committees and forums, including, for example: We monitor our progress against four key priority Future of London: objectives twice annually, through environmental representatives in all areas of the business and via the Home Builders Federation HBF our Environment and Health and Safety Committees, andassociated working groups: and to ensure they are fit for purpose for the duration EXCELLENCE NHBC Expert Panel.
We strive for excellence and continuous improvement in These alliances provide us with the opportunity Our people receive information and guidance about everyendeavour.
to discuss, share and influence best practice in our policies, processes, procedures and their our industry, with Government, experts and responsibilities through monthly staff presentations, interested parties.
new starter induction days, training courses and toolbox talks, as well as via our intranet.
MANAGEMENT Management systems ENVIRONMENT In accordance with our approach to continuous Our approach to environmental sustainability is improvement, the Group is fully accredited to informed by our values, compliance requirements ISO 9001 Quality, ISO 14001 Environmental and the needs of our stakeholders.
This applies to and BS OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety all aspects of our business and involves setting key standards each standard is independently objectives and measuring performance against verified.
We are working towards recertification them in order to ensure continual improvement.
November 2016 against the newly revised and Waste updated ISO 9001 and 14001 standards.
The Group is implementing more stringent practices Legal compliance and commercially focused systems in order to Since 2004, we have received zero prosecutions recycle more and reduce waste going to landfill.
against our environmental and health and For the reporting period a 10 per cent reduction, 2 2 safetypractices.
com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED A cost benefit analysis of the remaining suggestions is being developed.
During 2016, a Carbon ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED Reduction Commitment report was undertaken byOaktree for the period of its ownership Resource use oftheGroup.
At Countryside we want to partner with our supply chain in an open, co-operative and collaborative Water usage manner.
Partners enjoy a number of preferential 3 We monitor water usage in the Groups offices.
Our water usage in our offices has decreased to 4,242m terms which also enables us to: 3 2015: 4,779m.
This equates to a reduction of 33.6per cent per employee.
aid design development and minimise direct OUR GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS and indirect waste: During the year we collated our energy usage for the Scope one, two and three activities as illustrated maximise value engineering and minimise by the tables below, to demonstrate our GreenHouse Gas GHG impacts.
resource use: Office activities reduce critical path programme: and For the reporting period, we cut our office-based CO emissions by 25.3per cent per employee.
2 assist in planning of associated health, Scope 1 Scope 2 Total GHG safetyand sustainability risk assessments.
Total Total Total Ecology Gas Gas CO e kg Electricity Electricity CO e kg Total CO e kg Our commitment to being a placemaker helps 2 2 2 kWh CO e kg per head kWh CO e kg per head CO e kg per head 2 2 2 usestablish coherent ecological networks that are more resilient to current and future climate 940,247 173,005 159 1,290,908 542,457 499 715,462 658 change pressures.
During 2016, 82per cent 2015:51per cent of our projects were on Business travel Scope 3 brownfield land, which is a positive improvement Our overall fleet CO emissions increased to 1,858 tonnes from 1,485 tonnes in 2015.
This equates to and is indicative of the make-up of our land bank.
2 1.71 tonnes of CO per person 2015: 1.82, adecrease of sixper cent.
2 To manage local risks, qualified ecologists undertook full ecological surveys as part of the site evaluation kWh CO e kg Total CO e kg per head 2 2 process on 97.8per cent 2015: 97.4per cent ofour projects.
Ecological protection and design 7,555,351 1,858,011 1,709 features are incorporated to create quality of place, and to improve sales values and the Site activities desirability ofthe homes.
This is the first full year that site energy activities have been recorded.
Transport Scope 1 We encourage the use of sustainable transport modes by providing an increasing number Total ofcycling facilities and electric charging points Gas Gas Gas oil Gas oil Total Total CO e kg 2 2 atour developments.
Good locations and model choice Scope 2 are proven to help residents minimise their Electricity Electricity Total environmental footprint.
2 kWh CO e kg CO e kg per m 2 2 Energy 1,954,542 814,010 2.92 The energy efficiency of the homes we have built as measured by the Standard Assessment 2 2 Procedure SAP continues to be above Intensity measure kg CO e m based on developed area of 278,732m in period GIA.
2 thenational standards at an average rating of Based on 1,087 employees.
The average SAP rating for new homes in England was 81.5 100.
Non-operational performance Scope 1: These are emissions that arise directly from sources that are owned or controlled In addition to reducing the impacts of bytheGroup, for example from fuels used in generators andplants on our sites.
thecommunities and homes that we Scope 2: These are the emissions generated by purchased electricity consumed by the Group.
develop, wecontinue to improve our non-operational performance.
Scope 3: These emissions are a consequence of the activities of the Group but occur from sourcesnotowned or controlled by the organisation.
Thisincludes emissions The Group complied with the Energy Savings  travel.
Opportunity Scheme during this reporting period.
Several opportunities for improvement have been implemented.
34 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability highlights 2 ISO 9001 ISO 14001 7.9t m 95.6% quality environmental waste on site of our sites within 1km a reduction of 10 per cent ofpublic transport BS 18001 on 2015 health and safety PLACES PEOPLE 0 85.45% energy efficiency of our homes prosecutions for health, LOVE SAP benchmark: 81.5 per cent safety or environmental violations 12.8CO e kg 658CO e kg 97.8% 2 2 carbon per head office employee of our sites have full 2 per m a reduction of 25.3 per cent on 2015 ecological survey carbon intensity on site first year measured Download our sustainability report .
com about-us who-we-are sustainability COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC 35
