com OUR PEOPLE PUTTING PEOPLE AT THE HEART OF OURBUSINESS Our people are our greatest resource and without them we would not be able to build sustainable communities where people want tolive.
PEOPLE ARE OUR GREATESTRESOURCE Countryside wants to attract and retain the bestpeople in the housebuilding sector to deliver our strategy.
We believe that our people truly differentiate us from our competitors.
In the last two years, we have nearly doubled our employee numbers and now have over 1,000 people working for us.
Our employee turnover of 17.5 per cent isin line with the rest of the construction sector.
Our aim is to grow our own as much as we can, together with a healthy balance of new recruits.
OUR PEOPLE ARE HIGHLY ENGAGED In 2016 we ran the Groups inaugural all-employee survey, and over 80per cent of our people responded.
Our overall engagement score of 81per cent positions us in the upper quartile forUK employers as a whole.
From this, we believe that our people feel valued, well led andexcited about the future.
UPPER QUARTILE EMPLOYEEENGAGEMENT Employee engagement 81% INAUGURAL ALL-EMPLOYEE PRIDE IN THE SURVEYRESULTS JOBAWARDS The National House Building Council NHBC awarded a Feel that trust and values are considered important 85% Pride in the Job Seal of Excellence Award to Thomas Moore, our Feel that personal growth and development are valued 71% Senior Site Manager at Abode in Are satisfied with manager effectiveness 75% Cambridge.
Thomas also received Feel their safety is valued 89% an NHBC Health & Safety Award.
Dave Parry, Mick Montgomery, In order to take action as a result of the survey, Charlie Barbara and David Taylor, we will be tackling three main areas: together with their respective encouraging a more flexible approach to teams, also received a Pride in the working hours: Job Award for their outstanding quality of workmanship.
promoting inter-departmental teamwork: and putting greater emphasis on reward forperformance.
30 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC STRATEGIC REPORT WE WANT OUR PEOPLE TO CHOOSE THE RIGHT BENEFITS FORTHEM AND THEIR FAMILIES At Countryside we are committed to providing an inclusive working environment where everyone feels valued and respected.
Recognising the diversity of our employee base, our approach to reward is centred on choice.
Over four in ten of our people selected at least one flexible benefit this year.
These benefits range from buying and or selling days of annual leave, through reduced fees on life, dental and travel insurance, to participation in the Governments Cycle to Work scheme.
For those of our employees who qualify for a caror cash allowance, we have a sector-leading fleet proposition.
This focuses on offering our employees choice based on their lifestyle, while remaining environmentally conscious by capping our CO emissions.
2 HUMAN RIGHTS Our policies and procedures are designed to ensure we comply with UK law and best practice guidelines, including areas such as business conduct, equal opportunities, anti-corruption, whistleblowing and countering modern slavery and human trafficking.
Our contracts explicitly oblige suppliers to meet GENDER DIVERSITY WE INVESTED MORE IN OUR PEOPLE all current employment legislation.
LAST YEAR THAN EVER BEFORE We have launched a new Group-wide approach HEALTH AND SAFETY BOARD OF DIRECTORS to succession and talent management as part of Countryside conducts its business with due regard our grow our own people strategy.
We overhauled for the health, safety and welfare of its employees, our training proposition and significantly improved contractors, clients, visitors and members of the MALE FEMALE the quality and quantity of delivery, particularly public.
We develop a positive culture towards health 5 3 around induction, customer service, sales and and safety throughout our operations and as a leadership.
In the last year alone, over 200 of our minimum we observe all the requirements of the Female line managers have received refresher training Health and Safety at Work etc.
focusing on recruiting and managing their teams 37.5% Countryside operates a comprehensive Health performance.
We are committed to developing andSafety Management system fully registered our people at all levels of the organisation through to OHSAS 18001 and we are committed to both leadership and vocational training.
Building continual improvement through a comprehensive apipeline of talent is critical to our success.
training programme and by actively encouraging feedback from all levels of our workforce.
Regular SENIOR MANAGEMENT OUR APPROACH TO FUTURE on-site inspections are carried out internally by the TALENT HAS IMPROVED Groups qualified health and safety professionals.
Our two-year graduate programme is proving The day-to-day management of these activities is very successful.
We again increased our graduate MALE FEMALE overseen bytheGroups Head of Health and Safety.
166 27 intake in 2016, and launched a construction management training programme to meet our The Company Secretary is the Executive Committee future site management needs.
The first entrants member responsible for health and safety Female onto this programme will join us early in 2017. throughout the Group.
14% OUR PEOPLE ARE OURSHAREHOLDERS In February 2016, soon after IPO, we launched our first all-employee share plan which was significantly oversubscribed.
70per cent of our TOTAL WORKFORCE employees signed up to buy shares in the newly created listed company under the terms of the scheme described on page 114.
MALE FEMALE 752 335 At the same time, we also offered our first LongTerm Incentive Plan to our Director 7 10 population as a retention tool for this key Female of our people participated in population.
With the launch of these two our SAYE scheme 31% shareplans, we believe we offer a highly market-competitive reward package.
