STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IS WELL ALIGNED WITH OUR BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY We believe that a committed approach to all CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS Compliance integrity is challenged by third aspects of Corporate Social Responsibility We aspire to be the manufacturer of choice: party announced and unannounced audits, CSR will benefit our stakeholders and renowned for technical integrity, animal which incorporate traceability, mass balance strengthen our business, facilitating future welfare, compliance, food safety, product and isotope provenance testing to confirm sustainable growth.
We promote best practice quality and innovation.
We also produce organic products CSR and shared learning.
Our CSR Policy label and branded products to the major UK that are subject to an in-depth traceability clearly defines our core values and aspirations.
retailers, restaurant groups and food service review carried out by independent auditors, Our Group CSR committee meet at least four retailers as well as supplying pork to other working on behalf of The Soil Association.
times a year, chaired by the Finance Director, food manufacturers.
We also have a rapidly who is also a member of the executive growing export business.
Many of our In the year under review our Group Technical committee, and has representation from each customers consider us to be their key supplier Compliance team completed 686 separate of the key functions of Human Resources, or category champion and a preferred partner internal compliance audits against the BRC Health & Safety, Environmental and Technical.
on key technical initiatives and projects.
standard, retailer policy, Hazard and Critical Control Point HACCP, hygiene inspections, Our core values are to: Our production facilities are some of the and ethical standards.
This programme is not manufacture great quality food, which is best invested and most efficient in the UK only there to identify non-compliance but is safely produced in technically and legally and include the most modern and efficient also a means to proactively highlight best compliant facilities: pig abattoir in the country.
Our facilities practice and shared learning across the prioritise food provenance and safety and undergo exacting technical audits carried out Group which is a fundamental building block legislative compliance in all our technical by independent auditing bodies, customers, that underpins our technical performance.
and commercial decisions: government authorities and our own technical promote technical innovation, product compliance teams.
During the year we hosted PRODUCERS AND SUPPLIERS quality and compliance across our business: 396 separate external compliance audits and RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT drive research and development R&D associated technical inspections, many of We are committed to ensuring the integrity innovation through excellence in food which were unannounced, and we are and traceability of raw materials, including science and food sector technology: pleased to report that over 96 per cent the meat, ingredients and packaging we use engage with industry stakeholders to of these audits were completed to the full in the manufacture of our products.
680 raw remain at the forefront of legislative, satisfaction of our customers and other material suppliers and 5,782 products and food safety, agribusiness and other business stakeholders.
associated specifications are approved and technological developments which may controlled centrally by Group Technical have an impact on our business: and We recently celebrated our 111th consecutive Services GTS.
Suppliers are approved by operate our business in a sustainable way Grade A rating against the British Retail either an independent third party audit, and have measurable KPIs in place to Consortium BRC Global Standard for Food such as the BRC Global Standard for Food manage its impact on the environment.
This record of technical compliance Safety, or by audits carried out by members stretches back to 2005 and is one which we of the GTS team.
Our expectations of our Our stakeholders: believe to be sector leading.
We have a team suppliers are clearly laid out in our Technical customers and consumers requiring of talented and industry proven personnel Conditions of Supply and audit frequency is great quality food: who are responsible for this long-standing based on risk assessment, supply chain threat producers and suppliers providing us commitment to technical excellence.
analysis, horizon scanning for known and with raw materials that are approved to emerging risks, and previous supply record.
our quality standards: In addition to the BRC compliance of In the last twelve months we carried out people keeping our employees healthy, our sites and their food safety and quality 191 supply chain audits to assure the safety, safe and motivated: management systems, many of our pork traceability, quality and provenance of the environment using our resources products fully comply with the Red Tractor raw materials we use within our business.
in an environmentally friendly and Assurance Scheme and the British Meat sustainable way: Processors Association BMPA Pork and Pork communities being responsible to the Meat Product standards.
This compliance communities in which we operate: and gives consumers the confidence that our Shareholders providing value in their products are produced within an assured investment and confidence in how supply chain: to specified standards: and we operate.
traceable all the way back to the farm.
36 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 680 5,782 APPROVED AND CONTROLLED APPROVED AND CONTROLLED RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIERS PRODUCTS AND ASSOCIATED SPECIFICATIONS We are addressing the wider challenges FARMS AND PRODUCERS Many of the pigs supplied to us are reared associated with preventing DNA crossDuring the year our Preston and Norfolk sites to higher welfare standards associated contamination during the manufacture of collectively processed over 2.25 million pigs, with outdoor bred or outdoor reared single species products in multi-species equivalent to 45,000 pigs per week up 12.5 production methods.
Approximately factories and we have been proactive in per cent on the previous year.
Both sites are 50 per cent of those processed by Preston, supporting the BMPA and the Food Standards key suppliers of pork to a number of our other and 75 per cent by Norfolk are reared to Agency FSA in their work with industry sites and third party food manufacturers.
the exacting requirements of the RSPCA stakeholders.
We have an extensive risk-based They are strategically placed in two of the Freedom Foods welfare standard.
The DNA screening programme for raw materials UKs largest pig breeding and rearing balance of pigs processed are reared used and finished products produced by our regions.
Close supply chain proximity ensures indoors in full compliance with the Red business.
In the last year we spent 2.0 million that animal transportation times from farm to Tractor BMPA Quality Assured Pork BQAP on the laboratory screening of our products abattoir are minimised with resulting welfare welfare standards.
and raw materials, to ensure compliance, and food mile reduction benefits.
The map provenance and safety.
below provides an overview of farm locations The 2015 Business Benchmark on Farm and distances travelled by pigs to our two Animal Welfare BBFAW report provides ETHICAL STANDARDS processing sites: an account of how animal welfare is being We monitor ethical standards with our managed by leading food companies sites undergoing unannounced SEDEX around the world.
The development of the Preston, near Hull Members Ethical Trade Audits SMETA Benchmark is funded by Compassion in 35% within 25 miles every other year: supported by our own World Farming and World Animal Protection 55% within 40 miles ethical verification audits.
We are AB buyer and is the first global measure of food 66% within 50 miles supplier members of SEDEX Supplier Ethical businesses commitment to animal welfare.
73% within 60 miles Data Exchange and are currently working Now in its second year the benchmark has with our suppliers to register them with undergone significant change which has Norfolk SEDEX so that their ethical data is visible made compliance more challenging.
Despite 46% within 25 miles to us, enabling us to drive ethical standards this we have retained our Tier 2 rating which 86% within 40 miles within our supply chain.
rates our commitment to animal welfare as 90% within 50 miles integral to business strategy.
We are proud 95% within 60 miles Several members of our technical team to be one of only eleven food companies represent us on trade association technical globally to have been awarded this status.
Our Group Technical Director is a member of the BMPA Council and Chairman of the technical committee 20 per cent of the British pigs we process To download a copy of the report please responsible for the review and development come from our own farm businesses.
visit the Info Centre at www.
com and click on the 2015 report of the BMPA Pork Schemes which are the assurance, traceability and product quality standards which sit behind the Red Tractor logo displayed on pork and pork meat products.
In addition, our Group Technical Compliance Controller represented the BMPA on the BRC working group responsible for the development of version 7 of the BRC Global Food Standard.
Performance in Performance in Target Key CSR Performance Indicator 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 Complaints per million units sold 34 24 Maintain the downward trend Number of suppliers linked to SEDEX less than 100 294 Continue the upward trend Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare Tier 2 Tier 2 Maintain Tier 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 37 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED I see CIEL as a fantastic opportunity to provide world class research facilities to the UK livestock and meat processing industries.
In so doing, it will establish a forum that will link leading research providers with forward thinking processors to ensure that the innovative research, for which the UK is renowned, is more easily converted into commercial reality thereby giving the UK livestock supply chain a real point of difference.
Andrew Caines, Cranswick Group Technical Director Our agricultural team is working with We encourage our employees to express The introduction of the new Government several retailer specific pig producer groups their views via Works Councils or Union Apprenticeship Levy Scheme in 2017 will on rearing systems, breed development, membership.
Employees have a Worker enable us to offer additional apprenticeship welfare, sustainability, environment and Representative, who may be a Union opportunities across all areas of our business.
Representative, to air their views on internal committees.
We want our employees to GRADUATE DEVELOPMENT Projects include: feel valued and we view them as critical We believe our graduate programme is collaborating with Bishop Burton stakeholders in our business.
A variety of unique within the food industry and this year Agricultural College on animal behaviour initiatives have been implemented as a we have sought to raise our profile in this and welfare: result of a staff survey which have bolstered area.
The programme provides experience in researching links between animal feed the trust and engagement of employees.
production, technical, NPD, sales, marketing and pork eating quality: and and finance alongside a specially designed developing industry best practice We have a training and development strategy training programme which encourages guidance on the use of antibiotics.
which delivers workforce capabilities, skills self-awareness and effectiveness.
and competencies through its apprenticeship To ensure we remain at the forefront of scheme, graduate development programme This year, we attended ten recruitment fairs pig health and welfare developments we and management training courses.
Succession across the country to raise awareness both have representation on the BMPA Pig Meat planning is actively managed, and employees of our business and graduate scheme.
There Committee, Red Tractor Welfare Committee, are given career opportunities which support were over 100 applications for our graduate the Pig Health & Welfare working group and staff retention and a sustainable and positions, and six graduates have been the Real Welfare Committee.
We are also one stable business.
recruited to start in September 2016. of the founding members of the Centre for Innovation Excellence in Livestock CIEL, APPRENTICES In 2015 we recruited eight graduates who a new 70 million innovation centre which We currently have 40 apprenticeships in place have carried out a number of projects and will bring together the food industry and in engineering, butchery, stockmanship and gained a wide range of experience in key academic researchers to transform the business administration.
We are particularly areas of our business.
productivity of the UK livestock industry.
proud of our butchery apprenticeship scheme which, we understand, is the only one of We won the 2016 Meat Management Award Our commitment to quality, resource, its kind in the UK, focused on developing for the Training Scheme of the Year for our traceability and the resulting high level of butchery skills and a deep understanding graduate programme.
We also had finalists compliance is reassuring to our stakeholders.
of the meat production process.
in the Young Manager of the Year category We are committed to the highest possible in 2015 and 2016.
The 2016 finalist was standards of technical management, food We have representatives on the team previously a placement student who returned safety, traceability, animal welfare, and the developing Trailblazer Apprenticeships, on to the graduate programme in 2014. provenance of the raw materials we use and the working with the Industry Skills Partnership products we produce: with ongoing investment for Food and Drink, to create new food Our graduates are key to the first stage in our sites, people and processes we are well production apprenticeship programmes.
of our succession planning and supporting equipped to deal with future challenges.
These programmes will enable apprentices their successful development is vital to the to gain cross-functional skills that will be long-term success of our business.
PEOPLE positively recognised across the industry.
Our Human Resources HR strategy is It is pleasing to note that this year our EDUCATIONAL PARTNERSHIPS incorporated into our CSR policy and overall Wayland Farms business won the Investor We have a corporate partnership with the Hull strategic plan to underpin our vision and in Training Award at the National Pig University Business School and are currently purpose.
We aspire for our people to be the Awards 2015 for their apprenticeship scheme, working with Westminster Kingsway College best and we are committed to inspiring and as well as the Training Initiative of the Year at in London to deliver a bespoke learning developing a multi-skilled and motivated the Pig and Poultry Marketing Awards 2016. programme based on the development workforce.
The HR strategy includes CSR of new products within food production.
initiatives for attracting and retaining talented individuals who have key skills which are vital to delivery of our long-term business goals.
38 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 39 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED This is the first initiative of its kind within During the year we approved, in connection Our Group Health & Safety team is led by the catering and hospitality college and with the Modern Slavery Act 2015, an the Group Health & Safety Manager with represents our dynamic and forward Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking the assistance of two Group Health & Safety thinking focus, not only in branching out Statement and an Anti-Slavery and Human Coordinators.
All our sites have a dedicated into other food related disciplines but Trafficking Policy.
We are committed to Health & Safety Manager to provide the also in developing our connections in the ensuring there is transparency in our own highest standards of Health & Safety south of England.
business and in our approach to tackling management.
All our Health & Safety modern slavery throughout our supply employees hold the appropriate National We work with a number of schools in the chains, consistent with our disclosure Examination Board in Occupational Safety areas local to our sites, through mentoring obligations under the Modern Slavery Act and Health NEBOSH qualification.
We expect the same high standards interviews, sponsorship of awards ceremonies from all of our contractors, suppliers and With the increasing complexity of equipment and attendance at skills fairs for young people.
other business partners, and as part of our and legislation surrounding its design and use, contracting processes, we include specific our engineering teams have been trained in LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT prohibitions against the use of forced, machinery safety and any new machinery will Our training pathway starts by ensuring that compulsory or trafficked labour, including not be used unless it complies with the latest our junior managers have a core set of key anyone held in slavery or servitude, whether Certificate of Conformity CEE regulations.
skills, including understanding their own adults or children, and we expect that our personality traits, on which to base their suppliers will hold their own suppliers to the TRAINING further development.
This is followed by same high standards.
Providing appropriate training to all attendance at a residential Leadership employees is key to the success of our Development Programme which is used to We employ 5,624 people, up from the Group Health & Safety standards.
All new identify and develop our leaders of the future.
previous year of 4,945, and we hired employees undertake a Health & Safety 3,261 agency workers.
In total, we provide induction course including fire safety, manual 226 of our managers have enhanced their employment for 8,885 people of which handling, task and machinery training in skills through ongoing training programmes 35 per cent are female.
Further details their working environment.
We also provide during the year.
We expect to roll this out of our diversity policy are shown in the ongoing Health & Safety training throughout across the business by the end of 2017.
Nomination Committee report on page 59. employment.
All of our employees and agency staff are task trained to safe systems Projects for the next financial year include We recognise the benefits of diversity and our of work for any equipment or task they work the ongoing development of our senior diversity policy provides equality and fairness.
This training is documented and signed teams, including director training and There are no differences in the pay structure off by the employee and the trainer.
We have mentoring, finance training and developing for males and females performing the same suitable systems for communicating Health the commercial team.
& Safety and training for our non-English speaking workforce.
EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY HEALTH & SAFETY Encouraging the principles of equality We comply with all relevant Health & Safety AUDITS and diversity are key to the successful and standards and regulations, and adopt Annual internal Health & Safety audits are inclusive culture that lies at the heart of our industry best practice across all of our sites.
carried out to measure the Health & Safety business.
Regular training is provided for Our Group Health & Safety team implements standards at each of our sites to confirm all employees, reiterating the importance and monitors new initiatives to maintain they achieve the required standard and of equal opportunities and best practice excellent standards.
The Board reviews provide an action plan for the following behaviours.
Site HR managers have been quarterly accident and claims statistics.
In 2015 16 we continued trained in equality and diversity principles We review monthly accident statistics using to improve Health & Safety standards and to roll these out to all middle and senior an industry leading web-based recording reduce accident frequency.
All employment system which allows analysis of each accident safety of employees is key to this and we decisions, including recruitment and and monitors control measures introduced have developed a behavioural safety system, internal promotions, are based on merit, to prevent recurrence.
The system includes which highlights our workers attitude to risk qualification and abilities and are not a tracker to ensure all required actions are and hazard.
Early indications from this project influenced or affected by an individuals completed in the required time period.
race, colour, nationality, religion, gender, marital status, family status, sexual orientation, disability or age.
40 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The successful trial of this system at our ENVIRONMENT CARBON FOOTPRINT AND Norfolk site showed a significant reduction We are committed to protecting the GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS in accidents and claims and improved environment by minimising the impact of Our carbon footprint and greenhouse gas communications with employees.
The our activities by reducing waste, emissions emissions are expressed in tonnes of carbon programme has now been successfully and discharges from all sites.
dioxide equivalent CO e. We have measured 2 rolled out across the business.
The positive our footprint since 2008 and have continued effects of behavioural safety are widely We are committed to reducing our carbon to aggregate the individual site figures which known, and the HSE have commended our footprint by 30 per cent by 2020 and our includes all site energy, f-gas losses, waste implementation of this programme.
Norfolk Group Environmental & Group Sustainable and Group operated transport fleet.
DEFRAs saw a 32 per cent reduction in accidents in Procurement policies reinforce our guidelines and standard conversion factors the current year.
This led to a 17 per cent commitment to achieving this target.
They are used for Company reporting.
reduction in claims, and a 42 per cent include specific environmental management reduction in lost working days.
requirements, including ensuring each site Despite continued growth of 10 per cent has a fully functioning, maintained and in underlying sales volumes, together with INCIDENTS formal, third party accredited, ISO 14001 a full years contribution from Benson Park, The Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Environmental Management System.
we have achieved a 2.2 per cent reduction Dangerous Occurrences Regulations We are well placed to meet our target.
in our overall absolute carbon footprint from RIDDORS was slightly lower than the 93,617 tonnes of CO e in 2014 to 91,419 2 previous year.
The RIDDORS incident ratio In December 2015 we achieved formal tonnes of CO e in this reporting period.
2 accident against number of employees accreditation to the ISO 50001 standard The relative carbon footprint has also reduced by 15 per cent compared to 2015. for the Energy Management System that reduced by 11.7 per cent to 0.219 tonnes The total number of recorded accidents per we have promoted throughout the Group.
2 100 employees in 2016 was 3 per cent lower This provides further testament to our than in 2015.
All our sites continue to carry commitment to operate our business in It should be noted that the measurement is out first class accident investigations which a responsible manner by reducing our now taken over a fiscal period rather than the are monitored by the Group Health & energy consumption and investing in calendar period previously used to align with Safety Manager.
the Groups reporting of KPIs.
Accidents Per 100 Employees We acknowledge the requirement to disclose the greenhouse gas emissions separately in the following categories: 8.2 6.9 Emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide from: 6.7 i combustion of fuel and operation of facilities: and ii purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling.
0.71 0.78 0.66 2014 2015 2016 Total RIDDORS Performance in Performance in Target Key Performance Indicator 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 Relative carbon footprint Tonnes CO e Tonnes sales 0.248 0.219 reduce further by at least 3% 2 Energy intensity kWh Tonnes sales 524 473 reduce further by at least 4% Waste to landfill Tonnes 1,016 639 reduce to zero Water intensity cubic metres Tonnes sales 2.42 2.59 to reduce consumption Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 41 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED It is impracticable for us to distinguish The lower value of plastics and other place.
If targets for the coming year are between the two categories due to the oil based products has made recycling reached we will be significantly closer to nature of our operations: however the more difficult.
The percentage of materials achieving our goals.
majority of emissions come from electricity recycled has fallen by 0.1 per cent.
We now and gas, which are monitored.
have a target to reduce waste to landfill to COMMUNITY zero by the end of 2017.
Our CSR commitment is to support Absolute Carbon Footprint Tonnes CO e communities both locally and overseas and 2 recognise the global impact that our business Waste Disposal Routes % 110,000 has on society, and how we can improve the lives of those individuals who have a link to 61.5 57.1 57.8 us, through our values and sustainable business strategy.
90,000 As one of the largest employers in the East 34.0 33.9 Riding of Yorkshire, we are always looking to 30.4 70,000 actively engage with the wider community 2012 2013 2014 2015 16 and over the last 12 months have become a major supporter of the Hull Freedom Festival.
12.5 Like for like Group 8.2 The festival is designed to showcase the 4.6 talent and cultural diversity of Hull and raise LandfillRecycling RDF ENERGY the profile of the city on both a national and We have undertaken a number of energy international basis.
The festival encourages 2013 2014 2015 16 reduction projects during the reporting the community to get involved in a series of period, including a major refrigeration events designed to engage and inspire and project and some significant step changes WATER also offers volunteering opportunities within at sites where Automated Monitoring As a food manufacturer with strict hygiene the community.
In 2015, we supported the & Targeting AM&T systems have been standards it follows that we will be a event through sponsorship of an arts stage installed.
As a result we have seen a significant user in water.
Our absolute water and the provision of food for some of the reduction in energy consumption of over use has risen by 16.8 per cent reflecting a full performers.
In 2016, we have extended our 1.25 million kWh down 0.63 per cent.
All of years reporting from Benson Park, increased involvement to become the headline sponsor our sites have Climate Change Agreements production across the business, and a fault and reinforce our presence in the community.
in place under phase two of the scheme.
at one of our production sites which has now been rectified.
Water use per tonne of In 2017, Hull becomes the UK City of product has increased by 6.4 per cent and we Culture building on the success of events Absolute Energy Use kWh million are now below our 20 per cent reduction by such as the Freedom Festival.
We are addressing the increase planned throughout the year to allow the in water usage and intend to bring it back in local community to become actively involved.
We aim to support the event both within 170 our business and the community.
We will 3 be running a series of events and activities Absolute Water Use m during the year to give our employees the chance to get involved.
963,311 893,489 845,570 824,942 We are a Key Partner of For Entrepreneurs Only, an organisation of like-minded entrepreneurs who collectively turn over 3 billion each year, and employ over 2012 2013 2014 2015 16 18,000 people.
As one of the regions largest employers, we are able to offer a wealth of WASTE DISPOSAL expertise, advice and assistance to small We continue to work with Biffa IRM to find businesses within the area and assist in innovative methods to identify recyclable the promotion of the Hull and Humber 2012 2013 2014 2015 16 materials from our current waste streams to region as a great place to start up and run a attract rebates to offset the cost of disposal.
We actively promote the support of This has helped us divert a total 95.4 per cent Managing the impact of our business entrepreneurs to create and grow businesses of our total waste from landfill during this activities on the environment continues which provide careers for local people and aid reporting year to either Refuse Derived Fuel to be challenging.
It is incumbent on all our the development of the local community.
RDF, Anaerobic Digestion or recycling.
key stakeholders to accept and engage in initiatives to reduce our energy, water and Over the course of the year we were involved waste and understand how sustainability in a wide range of charitable activities, across improves our business model and profitability, the globe.
In 2015 we became a Platinum whilst providing the opportunity to remain Food for Good Sponsor and have joined with competitive in an ever tightening market other food and hospitality industry leaders to 42 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information raise 5 million to help end hunger for 70,000 JUNIOR SPORTS TEAM SPONSORSHIP The total paid in the year amounts to people in eastern Africa.
We are pledging During the year we have encouraged 55 million and is analysed as follows: our support to help make a real difference to young people to be more active, and have the lives of families in Africa by raising funds, sponsored a number of junior teams across Direct Tax Contribution m and providing assistance in order to increase a range of sports.
We provide kits for teams rural prosperity, and by investing in African and take an active role during the season by Corporation tax farmers ability to feed themselves and their attending tournaments.
The business goals of farmers in Business rates Africa relate to our own: to grow a full field, TAX increase yields, develop market links and Tax has recently become a significant focus 2 be sustainable.
Farmers in Africa want what of corporate responsibility, particularly the we all do for our own families: for them to level of contribution made to revenue have enough to eat, be healthy, have a good authorities.
We have an approved tax 11 education and achieve their ambitions.
In an strategy which ensures we comply with all interconnected world where we are all part tax laws wherever we do business and that 14 of the global supply chain, it makes sense we pay all taxes that we are legally required for all parts of that chain to be strong.
By strengthening African farmers we are building a stronger global industry which While we will protect Shareholder value by makes great business sense for us all.
adopting tax planning arrangements where appropriate, we will only structure our affairs We also have a responsibility to the based on sound commercial principles and Indirect Tax Contribution m communities in which we operate.
Around in full compliance with applicable tax laws.
three quarters of our employees live within We are transparent and proactive with tax Income tax ten miles of their place of work and we authorities when discussing planning and Employees National Insurance encourage our businesses to engage with seek confirmation of treatment where tax law their local communities in various ways, appears unclear.
To safeguard our reputation including offering students in local schools as a responsible taxpayer we do not participate career opportunities and work experience.
in any tax planning arrangements that do not 8 We encourage staff to become involved in comply with either the legal interpretation or charitable activities.
Our CSR commitment the spirit of tax laws.
is for each site to have one charity to which they wish to donate and for there to be We are transparent, proactive, timely 20 support for one national charity by the and courteous in our dealings with all Group as a whole.
tax authorities where we carry out business.
Our principal activities are UK-based and We support a number of local charities which we have regular meetings with HM Revenue have particular relevance to employees working and Customs to discuss tax matters and on our sites which have been nominated business developments.
Popular charities include SUMMARY Bluebell Childrens Hospice, the Yorkshire Air We believe there are sufficient controls We are committed in the long term to operate Ambulance and cancer related charities such and processes in place to meet our strategy.
our businesses in a responsible way and as MacMillan, Marie Curie and the Tickled Pink These controls and processes are subject according to a strong set of environmental, campaign.
Through donations, Name the Bear to review over the course of the year by ethical and sustainable values.
competitions, cake sales and sponsored events internal audit and recommendations for including a 120 mile bike ride, our sites have improvements will always be sought, On behalf of the Board raised over 115,000 and given support to 26 examined and adopted.
We also donate hampers and food have specific sections related to tax.
parcels to worthy causes and local community These registers, and any matters arising events on a regular basis.
are discussed locally and at the quarterly Mark Bottomley Group Risk Committee meetings.
Finance Director We will continue to raise money for local and 24 May 2016 national charities: Our tax strategy is aligned with our vision At site level including charity bike rides, and core values and fits within our overall marathons and similar running events, and Corporate Governance structure.
At a Group level involvement with Help The payment of tax takes two forms: for Heroes through the Red Lion Brand Direct contributions cost to the Group helps that business contribute all of its including corporation tax on profits, post-tax profits to Forces charities.
employers National Insurance and Other charitable donations of 20,000 business rates: have been made during the year.
Indirect contributions being income tax and employees National Insurance.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 44 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
