Corporate responsibility A successful approach to corporate responsibility is an essential part of securing a sustainable business which thrives both today and in the future.
Dairy Crests corporate responsibility strategy is designed to cover the whole range of our business activities: the environmental impact, our workplaces, our marketplace and our communities.
Our strategy has been successfully designed to meet these needs Furthermore, we look forward to our continuing relationship since inception in 2007, responding and evolving to current and with Business in the Community BITC which is our corporate emerging challenges through 2016 and beyond.
responsibility CR index of choice.
Following the disposals of the Whether it is our direct impact on the environment, the safety Dairies business, our historical CR Pledges have been reviewed to and wellbeing of our people, the healthiness of our leading brands ensure we are targeting the right activities and creating value, but or the communities that we share our environment with, our in a more simplified and streamlined way.
initiatives touch on all these areas.
Our Corporate Responsibility Committee has worked closely For our financial year 2015 16, we are able to report on with the BITC team to ensure that we reframe our pledges and a number of successes that build on previous years details commitments, and therefore continue to deliver against the Index.
covered in the following pages under Environment, Workplace, Check our website for our progress in this area.
Greenhouse gas report 2015 16 Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduced in 2015 16 by 18.4% compared In line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic to the previous year driven by the changes summarised in the chart Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 our greenhouse gas below.
GHG emissions are quantified below.
167.0 3.5 5.5 25.6 136.3 8.8 1.3 2015 16 2014 15 2013 14 4.0 Scope 1 79,050 89,377 87,256 tonnes CO e 2 Scope 2 57,256 77,612 74,646 tonnes CO e 2 14 15 15 16 total scope 1&2 136,306 166,989 161,902 tonnes CO e 2 kg CO e per Divestment and supply Chain rationalisation: 2 intensity ratio 81.37 78.58 74.71 tonne of milk sale of the Dairies business on 26 December 2015 resulted in intake reduction in Scope 1 emissions fuels used in processing sites and Emissions from depots and road fuel used for distribution and business travel and 22,033 22,192 27,619 tonnes CO e 2 200 Biomass fuel Scope 2 emissions electricity used in processing sites and depots for the final three months of the year 150 We follow the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to calculate emissions from the combustion of fuels Scope compared to the preceding year both Scope 1 and 2 emissions 100 1 and from purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling Scope 2. reduced as a result of moving production of spreads from Carbon emission factors are used to convert each activity that gives Crudgington to Kirkby in late 2014 and closure of the Chard 50 rise to GHG emissions to a carbon dioxide equivalent CO e using the processing site in October 2015.
2 latest UK Government conversion factors for company reporting.
0 The GHG data reported below relates to emissions from activities in operational changes at continuing business sites: the operational control of Dairy Crest Group plc from 1 April 2015 to operational efficiencies improving overall equipment effectiveness 31 March 2016 consistent with our financial reporting period.
and investment in energy reduction initiatives delivered both Scope 1 & 2 emissions reductions with an associated reduction in relative scope 1 emissions data includes material sources of fossil fuels used energy use per tonne of 9.3% across our continuing business sites at manufacturing sites and depots and road fuel used in the transport the carbon intensity of electricity imported from the public grid and distribution of intermediate and finished products.
Road fuel reduced by 7% compared to the previous year based on annual used in company cars operated by Dairy Crest for business travel is emissions factors issued by DEFRA reducing Scope 2 emissions also included.
Minor losses of refrigerants used in cooling equipment have been converted to tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and are the commissioning of new whey and GOS products at Davidstow, included for completeness.
combined with increased production throughput, increased both Scope 1 & 2 emissions scope 2 emissions data includes purchased electricity used in periods of reduced operation of the biomass boilers at Davidstow manufacturing, distribution and in offices.
due to short-term engineering issues mid-year necessitated increased We employ a per tonne of milk intake denominator as the most use of fossil fuel with resultant Scope 1 emissions increase.
In effective measure of relative performance.
This measure is consistent 2015 16 on site renewable energy represented 34% of total energy with our internal target setting process and how we communicate 51% of fuel used in the manufacture of products by the continuing relative performance.
We are continuing to explore further opportunities for the Consistent with the GHG Protocol emissions from biologically use of cost effective renewable technologies.
sequestered carbon are reported separately from the other Scopes.
These comprise emissions from combustion of biomass fuel at our The overall effect of the changes described above on the emissions creamery in Davidstow that significantly reduce Scope 1 emissions intensity metric was a year on year increase of 3.6%.
Emissions from combustion of biomass fuels are not included in the emissions intensity ratio reported above.
22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 Divestment of Dairies division Supply Chain Rationalisation Operational efficiencies Grid Factor Utilisation & Commissioning Biomass Boilers environment As a leading consumer food manufacturer weare determined to play an active role in mitigating and adapting to climate change, reducing waste and looking after our natural resources.
% operational CO e 2 cut by waste to 12.6% landll since last year 2007 08 2015 16 44% reduction energy and climate change We were proud to have this investment recognised as winners We are committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions of the Best Contribution to Resource Efficiency at the Cornwall associated with our direct operations and our wider supply chain.
Using less energy reduces emissions and energy costs within Combined with other efficiency initiatives, we achieved our direct operations.
We have undertaken energy surveys to an annual reduction in relative abstraction of 21.1%, or 44.1% identify additional opportunities the most cost effective of which reduction compared to our original baseline excluding the Dairies are prioritised in our utility reduction plans.
Projects include the installation of efficient lighting, lagging, The production of one litre of milk typically requires 6 litres motors, air, steam and refrigeration systems.
Efficient use of water on farm is therefore essential Our people also have a role to play through energy efficient to production of our main ingredient.
We assist our supplying behaviours, sharing their ideas and at our Utilities Roadshows farmers in measuring and managing water through the Waterwell supported by our energy, water and waste partners.
These projects contributed to an annual reduction of 9.3% In 2015 BITC and Dairy Crest brought together a group of relative energy use and 12.6% relative greenhouse gas emissions business leaders to explore how business can act on water from the sites of our continuing business.
This important Princes Seeing is Believing visit helped On farm emissions are typically 1.3 kg CO e per litre of milk to highlight the food industrys role in this area.
2 and represent around 90% of our supply chain emissions.
Our supplying dairy farmers have access to a tool to measure on Waste farm emissions and identify opportunities to increase resource We have achieved our target to send zero operational waste to efficiency.
landfill from the sites of our continuing business by working with We also participate in CDPs leading index that assesses the right partners, identifying novel approaches to difficult wastes management of emissions and in 2015 we further improved our and improving our waste infrastructure and behaviours.
disclosure rating to achieve our highest score to date.
We also focus on ingredient and product waste.
The Kirkby team commissioned a new system to recover oils that would Water otherwise be wasted for the production of biodiesel.
Securing sufficient, high quality freshwater is essential to our New products manufactured at Davidstow yield a nutrient business strategy.
Our investments help us to reduce loads on rich process water containing phosphate which is present in the river basins where we operate and to reduce the physical and incoming raw milk.
commercial risks associated with reliance on imported freshwater.
We have invested in a phosphate removal plant to produce a We commissioned a new water recovery plant at Davidstow to cake rich in both phosphate and calcium, essential components treat process water to a high standard suitable for reuse within the for crop production.
The cake is well suited to agricultural reuse Creamery.
agood example of the circular economy in action.
The plant is designed to recover 1.7 million litres per day We still have more to do to reduce waste at source.
We are equivalent to the daily needs of around 11,000 people.
The reuse pleased to be continuing our relationship with WRAP through of treated water enables the manufacture of new products without the new Courtauld 2025 commitment which targets a reduction significantly increasing freshwater imports by recovering up to in the resources required and the environmental impacts of food 70% of the sites water needs.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 23 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBIlITy CONTINUED Workplace At Dairy Crest we are committed to providing a workplace that is safe, engaging, promotes diversity and offers employees the opportunity to grow and develop their skills We provide employees the opportunity of a free Winners of this years Gold, Silver and Team Awards, part of our Reward and Recognition scheme.
ellbeing check safety first attended and motivating, these events help to reinforce our We believe a strong commitment to occupational health and messages around wellbeing, health and safety.
safety contributes to excellent business performance.
Achieved by engaging our people and constantly working to reduce risk, engaging our employees Dairy Crest has a track record of excellent progress in safety over Employees are happier and more productive when they are a number of years.
actively engaged in the business.
By the end of March 2016, excluding transferred Dairies 2015 16 has seen huge change for employees with the sale of employees, we had reduced our lost Time Accident Frequency the Dairies business.
Throughout this time, it has been essential Rate, calculated based upon number of lost time accidents in the to ensure communication to employees has been timely, accurate context of hours worked including RIDDOR and over 3 day lost and delivered with sensitivity: We held regular townhall events, time accidents from 0.4 to 0.3.
This shows progress against our published a dedicated website to include Questions and Answers challenging objective of a 50% reduction in Accident Incident Rate raised, and sent regular staff updates via e-mail and newsletter.
To further emphasise the importance of the sale of the Dairies Encouraging employees to report near misses is key to business, 40% of the potential pay-out of all Management and achieving sustainable long-term change in safety behaviour.
Administrative bonuses excluding Executive Directors which were Against our target of 100:1 ratio of near miss and behavioural set at 30% were linked to the successful delivery of the sale.
The conversation versus all types of accident by 2018, we achieved a combination of effective communication and targeted reward were ratio of 175, 2014 15: 117. crucial in maintaining engagement and business performance Another important way of engaging our teams is through our during this period of change.
We encourage employees to Stop, Ongoing communication and engagement is supported by a Think, Assess, Review STAR and complete STAR cards where weekly news round-up, regular business performance reports and they see safety related conditions or actions.
By discussing and our staff intranet.
addressing these issues, we have improved levels of dialogue, Feeling valued is key to engagement and that is why we involvement and a safety-first culture.
continue to provide all staff with the opportunity to be part of a bonus or incentive scheme which is linked to either personal, site Wellbeing and or company performance.
Proactively supporting employees to look after their health has been To further recognise individuals and teams that go the an important aspect of our occupational health and safety strategy extra mile we have our Rewards & Recognition programme for some time.
Through our occupational health service, we provide where staff can be nominated for Bronze and Silver awards that employees with the opportunity of a free wellbeing check.
Silver award winners are selected introducing this and including the mandatory health checks required by a committee of staff members to receive one of our three for certain roles, over 850 health checks have been provided prestigious Gold awards.
In 2015 16 399 Bronze Silver awards excluding transferred Dairies employees.
In addition, a team award is made to the group Wellbeing, health and safety days have been run across a of employees who have delivered a great team outcome that number of our locations.
These provide staff with a range of contributes real value to the business.
This year the award went to interesting and informative ideas to improve safety at work and the team who developed and launched our successful new Clover in the home, as well as advice on health matters.
Always well with No Artificial Ingredients product.
24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 Workplace Claire Jones, a student from Harper Adams University, is on a placement year at Dairy Crest.
Gender prole All employees Senior management Male Male 71% 73% Emma Cotton, a nineteen-year-old from Glastonbury in Somerset, was named Female Female as this years winner of the South West Dairy Crest & NFU Scholarship Award 29% 27% investing in learning Diversity and inclusion Our Talent function works across the business to ensure we offer We believe that for people to be the most productive, they need the right development opportunities to the whole workforce and to to achieve an appropriate balance in their commitment to the help Managers develop talent and succession planning.
workplace and their home life.
Any employee should feel that they An assessment of talent is undertaken annually through our can be flexible in their ways of working, according to business Talent Management Review process TMR where we review potential needs.
We wish to have a fully diverse work force because we for progression and use this as the basis for our succession recognise that people from different backgrounds, experiences plans for senior roles.
Due to the sale of the Dairies business, and abilities bring fresh ideas and innovations that improve our we did not undertake a formal talent development programme in business.
Employees are encouraged to reach their full potential 2015 16, however we plan to re-instigate this in 2016 17 and broaden regardless of their age, gender, marital status including civil succession planning to incorporate all key management roles.
partnerships, disability, nationality, colour, ethnic origin, sexual With the ongoing shortage of food specialists and engineering orientation or religious affiliation.
Dairy Crest does not tolerate skills in the food sector, Dairy Crest maintains investment in our discrimination or harassment on any of these grounds.
To help us technology and engineering apprenticeship schemes, launched achieve our aims our polices include the right to apply for flexible in 2011 and 2012 respectively.
As part of our relationship with working hours, a sabbatical, support with taking time off to study, Harper Adams University, the home of our new Innovation Centre, and we provide maternity pay above the statutory minimum and we offer food science placements in product and packaging full pay during paternity leave.
In the coming year, we will continue to focus upon driving 2015 16 has seen further progress in training at all levels.
diversity through effective recruitment and talent management Afocus on induction training has delivered improvements in the strategies, increasing the number of female managers and timeliness of this training.
A programme of targeted training has supporting workers where their first language is not English.
seen our manufacturing compliance skills completion rise from 81% to 96%.
Our investment in demineralised whey and GOS Working with trade unions production at Davidstow has been supported by a wide range Dairy Crest has good working relationships with the recognised of learning events, covering technical operator training, product unions, USDAW and Unite.
We acknowledge the positive role awareness and leadership management development.
trade unions can play in the development of our business.
This Retention of staff helps provide consistent levels of service year we have worked together constructively at a time of major as well as development of expertise and experience.
With the change, most notably with the sale of the Dairies business.
change undertaken within the business we have seen an increase in staff turnover from 13% to 15.3% this year.
This is recognised as higher than desired and we will be working even harder this year to understand employee views on how we make Dairy Crest an even better place to work.
To this end, we will run a revitalised employee survey focussed on what is really important in improving retention.
On a positive note, we were pleased to see absence levels fall from 3% to 2.6% Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 25 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBIlITy CONTINUED Marketplace We are committed to creating healthy, tasty enjoyable products, making it easier for Heavy Hitter consumers to choose healthier foods.
in lighter healthier brands HRH The Princess Royal hears about the evolution of packaging at the opening of the Dairy Crest Innovation Centre Healthier choices Demineralised whey & Gos Dairy Crest is proud to make healthy and nutritious products.
We have made a significant investment at our cheese plant in Wecontinue to invest in our healthier ranges, driving sales through Davidstow to enable us to supply high quality ingredients to infant promotions, advertising and innovation.
Market data shows that formula manufacturers.
This investment has been focused in two the lower fat and added value variants of our brands achieved key areas demineralised whey and creating a new plant that a collective retail sales value of 81 million including Frylight in produces GOS.
Demineralised whey is used in infant formula to 2015 16, an increase of 0.9% from 2014 15. provide protein and carbohydrate and is a purer, higher-value Cathedral City Mature lighter leads the lower fat branded product than the sweet whey that we currently sell.
GOS is a Cheddar market, recording a retail sales value of 33.3 million, prebiotic which has been shown to help aid digestive health.
We bigger than the next three brands combined.
We launched a new are investigating other potential opportunities for the use of GOS range of snacking products in April 2015 including Mature lighter in animal feed.
This exciting new area for Dairy Crest will enable us Minis which have secured strong support from customers and to explore delivering positive health benefits to consumers across consumers.
We also launched a Cathedral City Mature lighter twin the world.
Our lower fat spreads Clover lighter, Clover lighter than ethical sourcing light, Utterly Butterly lightly, Country life lighter and our Dairy Crest works with our supplier base to exceed best practice Clover Additions range have a collective retail sales value of around areas including quality, traceability and product recalls.
We launched a new No Artificial Ingredients recipe Our Supplier Corporate Responsibility policy is embedded in our for standard Clover in August 2015, supported by a wide-reaching standard terms and conditions with suppliers.
Dairy Crest works media campaign, resulting in increased sales.
with our farmers and our auditing partner, White Gold, to ensure Frylight, our one calorie per spray cooking spray, enjoyed another animal welfare and milk quality are of the highest standards impressive year with sales growth of 18% year-on-year.
This year, we introduced Davidstow Farm Standards brand has a retail sales value of 26.7 million pa and is now the which complement and enhance the required Red Tractor Assured biggest brand in oils, bought by a fifth of UK households.
The Davidstow Farm Standards ensure that all Since January 2016 all palm oil contracted for use in production milk supplied to us meets the strict international standards for the from April 2016 for our spreads products has come from RSPOproduction of infant formula.
We can trace milk and raw materials certified sustainable sources.
Having originally pledged to move to from farms and suppliers through to finished product.
fully certified sourcing by the end of 2020, we are pleased to say All of our manufacturing sites use systems and controls to that we achieved this by April 2016, more than four and a half years ensure sure we are making safe products of the highest quality.
ahead of our original commitment.
Our quality management systems are regularly reviewed and audited by our own technical teams and third parties to ensure innovation they comply with industry standards.
Every site is accredited In December 2015 we were delighted to open our state of the art to the British Retail Consortium Standard by an independent 4 million dedicated Food Innovation Centre on the Harper Adams auditingbody.
The partnership with Harper Adams University provides a link into leading agriculture and food research and will help us to continue to develop healthy products.
26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 Community Our community programme supports four key strategic aims: looking after the countryside, promoting healthy living and wellbeing, supporting education and employability and engaging with our local communities.
Dairy Crest donated 40kg of Cathedral City Cheddar for the Chelsea Pensioners to enjoy over the festive season looking after the countryside In November 2015, Dairy Crests support was recognised with a At Dairy Crest, we know that a healthy, vibrant countryside is as vital Gold Award at the GroceryAid Achievement Awards.
to rural communities and dairy farmers as it is to our future success.
Dairy Crest staff voluntarily deliver healthy, fresh food to Dairy Crest has a long-term relationship with The Princes vulnerable people in our local communities through Meals On Countryside Fund.
The charity, set up by HRH The Prince of Wheels.
Wales in 2010, aims to protect, improve and promote the British During winter 2015, we donated over 8,500 litres of milk to countryside and the businesses which work within it.
This enabled the homeless charity to help Dairy Crest donated 100,000 to the Fund in 2015 16 through 4,600 people take the first steps out of homelessness.
brand partnerships with Davidstow cheddar and Country life butter.
In the summer of 2015, before the Dairies business was supporting education and employability sold, the milk&more milkmen and customers helped raise a The agri-food industry is the fourth fastest growing sector in terms further 60,000 for the Fund through an envelope drop.
In April of businesses and third fastest growing sector in terms of jobs.
2016, for the second year, we also co-sponsored a racing day However, the agricultural sector is struggling to attract enough to raise money for the Fund at Ascot.
This year, the Fund has applicants with the right skills.
awarded more than 1.5 million in grants, in addition to 56,400 Dairy Crest has set up a number of initiatives which actively in Emergency Funding to support victims of this winters flooding encourage the next generation into the food and manufacturing across the North of England and Scotland.
By working with the IGD and their Feeding Britains Future In 2011 Dairy Crest, alongside other British dairy processors schools programme, we helped facilitate over 25 school careers and through The Princes Countryside Fund, set up The Princes sessions this year.
Through a package of business advice and support In 2016 we worked with Marks & Spencer to deliver their it aims to improve confidence and increase efficiencies within a youth unemployment programme, Movement to Work.
Dairy group of farmers identified as vulnerable and likely to cease being Crest offered 45 placements in the financial year throughout the a dairy farmer.
The Initiative has helped 291 farmers since 2012. business, including in manufacturing roles.
Dairy Crest is also a long-term supporter of Open Farm Dairy Crest helps fund community educational programmes, Sunday.
In June 2015, 389 farms opened their gates to the public including food science placements at Reading and Nottingham to demonstrate food production methods.
We were delighted to be Highly Commended in the Waitrose Way Awards Championing British category.
This was local community programme in recognition of the development of our world-leading farm We operate a staff lottery, open to all Dairy Crest employees.
standards and the work we are doing in partnership with our own Each site also has a community budget to distribute to local nearly 400 farmers in the South West charities and good causes nominated by members of staff.
This year staff have supported over 60 local causes through promoting healthy living and wellbeing financial donations.
Dairy Crest is a long-term supporter of GroceryAid, the food industry charity which was set up in 1857.
In their last financial year, GroceryAid awarded 4 million in welfare assistance to people who are currently working or who have worked in the food industry.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 27 Strategic report
