Corporate Social Responsibility Glossary Terms used within this section: DVP EU Dechra Veterinary Products Europe HCM Human Capital Management LTAFR Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate MAT Moving Annual Total SET Senior Executive Team Tony Griffin Katy Clough Managing Director, Dechra Veterinary Products EU Group HR Director Our People Plan is designed to enable the Group to drive innovation, customer and shareholder value, accountability, and success through: 01 Develop the SET to provide world class leadership to the Group 02 Align employee efforts and improve execution through effective goal setting linked to reward 03 Attract, retain and develop the right talent in the right place at the right time 04 Develop equitable reward systems that drive accountability and reward high performance 05 Identify succession plans and create development plans to secure the future talent pipeline 06 Create simplified access to data and reduce manual effort A responsible approach to our stakeholders implementation and improvement of policies coordinating its CSR activities throughout and the wider community is considered by and systems are an ongoing priority within all departments within the Dechra Service the Board to be important to the business.
Our Corporate Social Responsibility Our central logistics hub for Europe Dechra Tony Griffin is the nominated Director strategy has three pillars: Our People, Our Service Center based in Uldum, Denmark, responsible for health, safety and Community and Our Environment.
The has published its first Corporate Social environmental matters.
However, the Board conduct of the business towards social, Responsibility Report building on its history takes ultimate responsibility for Corporate environmental, ethical and health and of sustainability reporting in Denmark.
In this Social Responsibility and is committed to safety issues is recognised to have an first report it has focused on organising and developing and implementing appropriate impact on our reputation and therefore the 46 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www www.
indd 46 05 09 2016 17:25:45 47Strategic Report policies that create and maintain long term Performance Culture Employees by Business Unit value for all stakeholders.
Sound business The updated Performance Development ethics help to minimise risk, ensure legal Review PDR process was rolled out compliance and enhance Company efficiency.
across the Group during the summer of 2014, with all employees being Our People set objectives that link to the overall There has been significant progress made Company strategy.
During the year a during the year on the People Plan.
Human Capital Management HCM system has been implemented across One Dechra A Great Place to Work the Group and automation of goal setting During the year our employee base and PDRs is being rolled out to support has expanded significantly from 869 managers by reducing administration, to 1,288 following the acquisitions providing timely reminders and enabling of Genera, Brovel and Putney.
Our Katy Clough sharing of goals across teams and Group HR Director people integration plans have been departments.
underpinned by the roll out of the Dechra Values.
A Group-wide intranet is under Talent Management Brovel 6% development which will be available to all As Dechra continues to grow, attracting DVP EU 30% staff in a number of different languages.
and selecting top talent is an important DVP US 8% priority.
With this in mind, a new careers Strong Senior Executive Team SET website was launched in July 2015 which Genera 17% The SET has responsibility for the has helped to support the attraction of overall leadership of the Group, driving Group 2% candidates to Dechra.
We have also the successful implementation and Manufacturing 29% invested in the development of our execution of the strategy and enabling social presence via LinkedIn, a business PDRA 5% cohesion and co-operation between the oriented social networking tool.
various business units, as well as setting Putney 3% the Dechra Values so that these are The talent pool of the Group has increased embraced at every level of the business.
through our acquisitions and during the Employees by Country year there have been many opportunities During the 2016 financial year there have to develop the skills of our existing been a number of changes.
In November employees identified on our succession 2015, Suzana Cross joined as General plans through their involvement in the Counsel and Company Secretary: integration of our new teams.
as a result of a restructuring after the acquisition of Putney in April 2016, Aligned Compensation and Benefits Dr Anthony Lucas was appointed to lead Planned tactical work has been Product Development across the Group.
undertaken to understand external In readiness of the planned retirement benchmarks for senior managers and of Mike Annice, a recruitment process roles that have been identified as key to commenced and Greig Rooney joined in retain, together with an audit of existing July 2016 as Group Manufacturing and benefits and compensation practices Logistics Director.
Further alignment of compensation and benefits has taken The SET comprises Ian Page, Chief place in our acquired businesses and Executive Officer: the Chief Financial there have been planned enhancements Officer: Tony Griffin, Managing Director Adriatic region 236 Netherlands 194 to benefits in some of our territories.
DVP EU: Suzana Cross, General Counsel Austria 3 Norway 4 and Company Secretary: Belgium 11 Poland 7 Dechra Leaders Development Dr Susan Longhofer, Regulatory Affairs Denmark 72 We want to ensure that we retain our Portugal 2 and Business Development Group talented people and develop their skills in Finland 3 Spain 16 Director: Dr Anthony Lucas, Group both functional and people management, France 38 Sweden 9 Product Development Director: Mike which is key to supporting our continued Germany 86 UK 358 Eldred, President North America: Greig growth.
Over the course of the last Ireland 4 US 166 Rooney, Group Manufacturing and financial year, Leadership Development Italy 5 Logistics Director: Allen Mellor, Group IT Programmes have continued to be Director: Katy Clough, Group HR Director Mexico 74 delivered in the Manufacturing, European and Giles Coley, Marketing Director and Product Development teams.
Scalable HR During the year, the SET met seven times During the year a project was undertaken and a significant proportion of time has to implement the HCM system for been spent on the implementation and further information see Our People Case execution of the strategy.
Stock Code: DPH 47 slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
indd 47 05 09 2016 17:25:45 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Case Study: The new system implementation will deliver benefits across the Group including: Our People: HR System Implementation: Diamond Consistency and Clarity allowing process A number of options have been considered over the last standardisation resulting in comparable and consistent ways few years in various parts of the business to purchase and of working across the Group: implement an HCM system, to provide: Stable Analytics standard HR data recording and the underlying database and functionality to enable us to reporting across the Group resulting in clear information manage our people assets: being held about all Dechras employees which will a single point for all employee related data, automating key ultimately assist in understanding and better advising our processes such as recruitment, compensation reviews and people strategy: and performance management: Modern, Reliable and Flexible Technology the system support for managing international policies, employees roles is the latest in Cloud technology and will allow employees and benefits: and and managers greater flexibility in, for example, booking and requesting holidays: completing performance appraisals: tools and reporting capabilities to manage talent and and changing personal details.
The system has subsequently been rolled out globally with In September 2015 our Global HR team commenced building employees and managers experiencing the benefits of the framework for our new HR system, the Dechra Diamond self-service and the autonomy and flexibility this creates.
The project team has been led by Katy Rawlinson, Group HR Business Partner, and forms part of the Group-wide The project team are getting ready to launch Phase II: the Oracle project.
The core HR project team comprised Alison Talent and Performance Management modules, which will Yeomans UK, Marie Le-Masney UK, Eva Sndergaard be operational from the start of our 2017 financial year, Denmark, Annemette Snderskov Denmark, Marie-Helene performance reviews and the objective setting stage.
Arins the Netherlands, Eline Quist the Netherlands, Stefan Phase III will look at how we align various time and attendance van der Linden the Netherlands, and Chris Huettner US.
They and payroll systems to work with Oracle, particularly within our worked together to collate employee data from a number of Manufacturing business units, and how we integrate our newly sources across the Group to populate the new HR system and acquired companies.
provide the basis for comprehensive Group HR reporting.
After a successful period of user acceptance testing, a number of months of system configuration and a training session, Phase I of the new system went live at the end of February 2016.
For a number of years the Group has orientation, religion, race or disability.
and informal updates including a Group reported labour turnover as a non-financial The Group gives full consideration to newsletter that is issued twice a year KPI using a standard formula as follows: applications from disabled people, where following the half-yearly results and the year they adequately fulfil the requirements end results, intranets, management and Total number of leavers over the of the role.
Where existing employees team meetings at the respective business period 100 become disabled, it is the Groups policy units.
These ensure that our employees are Average total number employed whenever practicable to provide continuing informed of the financial performance of the over the period employment under the Companys terms Group, as well as the sharing of updates and conditions and to provide training and which are relevant to all Group employees The Groups target is to maintain employee career development whenever appropriate.
such as the introduction of new technology, turnover Moving Annual Turnover MAT In summary, we recognise that the success any management changes or restructuring, at or below 15%.
During the 2016 financial of the Group is dependent on our ability to updates on corporate social responsibility year this was 13.1% 2015: 12.2%, which attract, develop, motivate and retain skilled activities, and progress in relation to our represents an increase of 0.9%.
excludes the employees from Genera, Brovel and Putney.
Informing and engaging our employees Business Ethics through internal channels of communication The Board expects all of the Groups It is the Companys policy to provide equal is of utmost importance to the business activities to be conducted in recruitment and other opportunities for all Company.
We have multiple channels of accordance with the highest ethical employees, regardless of age, sex, sexual communication to provide both formal standards and in full compliance with 48 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
indd 48 05 09 2016 17:25:51 49Strategic Report all applicable national and international public.
Management is responsible for and Number of Lost Time Accidents legislation: in doing so we aim to maintain committed to the maintenance, monitoring a reputation for acting responsibly and with and promotion of a policy of health and integrity.
The Board has formalised these safety at work to ensure the care and expectations into a policy known as the well-being of its employees and on-site Code of Business Conduct the Code which visitors.
This Code Any material health and safety issues or was translated and circulated around the incidents that occur are discussed in detail business together with the Anti-Bribery and at both business unit senior management Anti-Corruption Policy.
meetings and PLC Board meetings.
This Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy Discussions include details of incidents was launched in the 2014 financial year and any remedial action taken to mitigate previously included in the Code of Business or prevent recurrence.
The policy, training documents comprehensive health and safety report is and guidance have been translated and presented at each of the business unit senior DPM Skipton 1 rolled out across all of the Dechra territories.
management meetings and subsequently DVP EU 2 The e-learning platform, Delta, has been reported to the PLC Board meeting the DVP US & Canada 0 developed and the Anti-Bribery and Antifollowing month for discussion and review by Corruption course is the first mandatory the Directors.
Mexico 1 company-wide training programme to be Genera 3 The main sites within the Group have launched on this platform.
All new relevant Putney 0 an active Health and Safety Committee employees will be required to complete this PLC 0 comprising representatives from both course and existing relevant employees will management and employees.
The workforce be required to undertake regular refreshes of nominates employee representatives.
committees meet on a regular basis to A Whistleblowing Policy is also in place carry out a review of risk assessments and whereby employees report, in confidence, standard operating procedures as well as any suspected wrongdoings within the investigating any concerns raised by individual business which they feel unable to discuss employees.
Each site has the requisite directly with local management.
number of employees trained in health and safety legislation.
Human Rights Dechra is committed to upholding and Our manufacturing site in Skipton, UK respecting human rights both within our operates a Health and Safety Management business and from our suppliers.
However, system closely aligned to the requirements Dechra does not currently have a separate of OHSAS 18001:2007, which is the British human rights policy.
Standard for occupational health and safety management best practice.
It is anticipated Modern Slavery that the formal accreditation will be applied DPM Skipton 0.24 Our Modern Slavery Act disclosure will be for in the forthcoming financial year.
DVP EU 0.23 published on our website within six months of the date of this report.
For a number of years the Group has DVP US & Canada 0.00 reported Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate Mexico 1.69 Health and Safety Policy LTAFR as a non-financial key performance Genera 0.85 The Group attaches great indicator see page 45. importance to the health and Putney 0.00 safety of its employees and the PLC 0.00 49 slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
indd 49 05 09 2016 17:26:04 Corporate Social Responsibility continued The LTAFR is a calculation of all injuries as a key performance indicator throughout Genera, Brovel and Putney, are included that are statutorily reportable under industry.
The Company reports LTAFR from the first full month that they become the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and on the same basis as in previous years, part of the Dechra Group.
Over the course Dangerous Occurrences Regulations that is absence or the inability of workers of the last 12 months the number of RIDDOR, normalised per 100,000 hours to conduct their full range of their normal incidents has increased from one to seven: worked.
This measure provides information working activities for a period of more than of these, four occurred in the acquired to help monitor and control accidents and three working days after the day when the businesses.
None of these incidents injuries to the workforce and is widely used incident occurred.
The acquired businesses, resulted in a work-related fatality or disability.
Our Community The Board encourages the business units to contribute to the social and economic welfare of the local communities in which they operate.
It recognises that by taking voluntary action in this area it is helping to protect and develop its own business.
This is the fifth year in which the Group has operated a Donations Policy.
All employees within the Group are entitled to nominate a charity or a non-commercial organisation.
This year 20,000 was allocated, split among the following charities: Type of Charity Charity Jurisdiction Description Animal Viljandi Varjupaik Estonia Viljandi is a non-profit organisation providing animal shelters in Estonia.
It employs three people who in 2014 dealt with 120 dogs and 432 cats.
Vogel revalidatiecentrum Netherlands The PRC Zundert is an animal shelter providing a refuge for birds, Zundert which are released into the wild once treated.
They also provide environmental education and awareness, working with schools, companies and environmental organisations.
Sebastian County USA The Sebastian County Humane Society purpose is the prevention of Humane Society cruelty to animals, the relief of suffering among animals, placement of animals in responsible homes, and the extension of humane education.
Environmental The Ocean Cleanup International Ocean Cleanup intends to test, further develop, and roll out a technique to clean the oceans of plastic.
A feasibility study and proof of concept have already been carried out successfully.
Currently a large scale study to measure the amount of plastic in the oceans is being undertaken.
This will be followed by a large scale pilot study near Japan.
Other Birmingham Childrens UK The Birmingham Childrens Hospital Charity supports every area of Hospital Charity the Birmingham Childrens hospital.
Himmunitas Belgium Himmunitas is a non-profit organisation which treats people who have diseases like autoimmune diseases, Lyme disease, multiple sclerosis or chronically exhaustion syndrome Operation Smile International Operation Smile is an international childrens medical charity that performs safe, effective cleft lip and cleft palate surgery, and delivers postoperative and ongoing medical therapies to children in low and middle income countries.
Gilchrist Services USA Gilchrist ensures that individuals with a life limiting illness, and their Hospice Care loved ones, receive the specialised physical, emotional, and spiritual care and support they need.
Ty Hafon UK A charity which tries to ensure that every life limited child and young person in Wales lives a full family life.
This involves offering a wide range of free care and support at its hospice and in the community for all the family.
They also offer short break care to children and young people at the hospice so families can take time out from their caring duties.
EASI Equines Assisting USA EASI is a non-profit organisation that offers equine therapeutic Special Individuals riding and equine assisted activities for people with disabilities or special needs.
Their programme provides opportunities for growth and development through therapeutic, educational and recreational activities.
RFVZollenreute e. v. Germany RFV-Zollenreute is a small, non-profit riding club which offers therapeutic riding to children from socially disadvantaged families.
50 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
indd 50 05 09 2016 17:26:05 51Strategic Report In addition to the annual Group donation, each business unit has discretion to allocate funds to local community groups, employee nominated charities and or animal welfare charities.
Below is a selection of what has taken place during the 2016 financial year.
Donations in Kind Type of Charity Charity Jurisdiction Description Animal Help Street Animals Morocco DVP UK continued to provide assistance to HSAM by providing of Morocco HSAM supplies in 2016 of Alvegesic, Atipam and Sedator.
Animal The Humane Society of USA PDRA US donated glucose testing equipment.
Greater Kansas City & Great Plains SPCA Other The humanitarian Croatia Donation of disinfectants.
organisation Bread of Saint Ante Financial Donations Business Unit Jurisdiction Amount Description DPM Skipton UK 601 Donations to Children in Need and Petal Cancer Research for Children.
DVP Canada Canada 1,783 Refer to case study: Our Community below.
DVP EU Denmark 240 Donations to community projects and the Danish Cancer Foundation.
DVP EU International 809 Continued sponsorship of three children through SOS Childrens Villages.
DVP EU International 31,830 Refer to case study: Our Environment Circle of Good DVP EU Germany 687 Donations to various animal charities and a local community project.
Genera Croatia 7,876 Scholarships of high performing students without adequate parental care or with financial difficulties.
PLC UK 1,000 Donation to Different Strokes.
Donation made for the year ended 30 June 2016 but paid after the year end.
Case Study: Our Community In May 2016, wild fires raged through Fort McMurray, Canada causing serious damages to homes and the local environment.
As a result hundreds of horses in the area were displaced.
The Alberta Sales Manager, Nicole Dievert, wanting to help, worked with the local community to organise a hay and feed collection for the displaced horses.
She also raised a cash donation of CAD 340, which was supplemented by a donation by DVP Canada bring the funds to CAD 3840.
Hay and feed were purchased, and with the help of a local haulage company, Nicole and volunteers drove four hours to a location selected by the Alberta Equestrian Foundation.
28 volunteers helped unload the hay working tirelessly over three hours.
With energy and compassion, Nicole and a team of volunteers saved over 100 horses displaced from the fire.
indd 51 05 09 2016 17:26:05 Corporate Social Responsibility continued have sustainable fishing practices at the heart of their mission.
Case Study: The NSF has been in operation for over 35 years and since 2013, Our Environment Circle of Good they have undertaken a Beach Cleanup Tour, where each year the foundation clean up the entire coast of the Netherlands in several The Circle of Good was developed as a positioning for the stages during one month.
This has become their most visible Specific brand of pet food because we believe pets deserve achievement to the general public and has been a great success, quality nutrition to support a healthy and happy life.
The with lots of people volunteering to help collect rubbish and debris manufacture a quality diet requires quality ingredients that need washed up from sea.
to come from a healthy and sustainable environment.
The main source of protein in our Specific range is fish.
Both the Dutch and Belgian sales teams actively participated in beach clean-ups in August 2016, encouraging veterinarians and pet To support this position, during 2015 financial year, DVP EU, owners to join them a true collaboration for the benefit of many.
out of the profit from the sales of Specific, committed to making donations to good causes that champion a healthy environment.
The table below provides a summary of the financial contributions to As part of this commitment the Dutch and Belgian teams joined the various charities, which were chosen by the respective teams: forces to look for a good cause that fittedwith the philosophy Country Charity Amount of the Circle of Good.
They chose the North Sea Foundation NSF, as both teams have a similar vision, a willingness to Belgium and the Netherlands NSF 11,167 share knowledge and collaborate.
This resulted in an agreement Finland WWF 670 between the two organisations for three years where Dechra has France WWF 18,612 committed to financially and promotionally support their activities.
Norway WWF 401 The mission of the NSF is to protect the North Sea and to use Sweden WWF 980 the seas resources sustainably.
With Specific containing a high World Wide Fund for Nature proportion of fish by-products we are keen on organisations who Our Environment organisations to have an environmental improved significantly their waste The Group recognises the importance policy and an action plan for managing their recovery, reuse and recycling processes: of good environmental controls.
It is the impact on the environment.
The business implemented active energy efficiency Groups policy to comply with environmental sets environmental objectives and targets programmes such as replacing non legislation currently in place, to adopt to ensure that they continually improve energy efficient lighting with industry best responsible environmental practices and to their environmental performance relative practice LED lighting: and give consideration to minimising the impact to business efficiency and minimising the of its operations on the environment.
impact on their activities on the wider investigated new technologies with a environmental media.
DPM Skipton has: view to replacing or reducing energy Our Manufacturing site in Skipton DPM, consumption from the national energy Skipton has maintained its accreditation since 1 April 2016 become a 0% waste supply networks.
audit for BS EN ISO 14001:2004 to landfill site.
Previous landfill waste is International Environmental Management now processed for energy recovery: standard.
This standard requires DPM Skipton: Annual Waste Disposal Performance Monthly Averages Year Ending Year Ending %Variance over Average Waste Volumes in tonnes 30 June 2015 30 June 2016 previous year Target expectation Recovered, Recycled & Reused volumes 8.7 11.59 33.22% 10% Exceeded Landfill Volumes 8.83 5.95 - 32.62% -10% Exceeded Contaminated Waste & Controlled Drugs 6.84 5.49 -19.74% -5% Exceeded Total Waste Produced 25.85 24.01 - 7.12% -5% Exceeded The Skipton facility continues to comply waste is disposed of under strict controls.
Our service centre in Denmark DSC is with effluent discharge standards into Furthermore, all exhaust air is fully filtered constantly monitoring and optimising its local water supplies, which is subject to from the manufacturing unit before energy resources, and has implemented the random monitoring by Yorkshire Water discharge into the environment.
most energy efficient equipment possible Authority.
Standard operating procedures whenever it has been both practically and are in place to ensure that all contaminated financially viable.
It is currently changing 52 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
indd 52 05 09 2016 17:26:08 53Strategic Report all of its lighting to LED lighting, which is Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 2: includes emissions from calculated to provide a return on investment This is third year that Dechra has collated purchased electricity, heat, steam and within two years, providing an estimated and reported on its Greenhouse Gas cooling: and service life of 50,000 hours or 12 years.
DSC is also investigating a system Methodology to monitor the use of its electricity, heat UK Governments Conversion factors for In order to determine our carbon emissions, and water on a daily basis to enable it Company Reporting 2015 have been used we have used the GHG Protocol Corporate reduce consumption in specific areas to convert Dechras usage into a carbon Accounting and Reporting Standard and time slots.
dioxide equivalent, and Dechra has selected and have reported on Greenhouse Gas Tonnes of CO e per total million sales 2 DSC has continued with its annual Emissions arising from those sources over revenue as the intensity ratio as this is a contribution of DKK15,000 to Energreen which we have operational control.
relevant indicator of the Groups growth.
ApS for the construction of new green The disclosures below encompass: energy production facilities within Denmark.
Scope 1: includes emission from combustion of fuel and operation of facilities excluding combustion of fuel from Company cars : 1 July 2015 to 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016 30 June 2016 1 July 2015 to 1 July 2013 to Acquired Existing 30 June 2016 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2014 businesses business Total 30 June 2015 restated Scope 1 2,800 634 3,434 636 613 Scope 2 1,212 1,918 3,130 1,740 1,712 Vehicle emissions 136 1,375 1,511 1,241 1,165 Total Carbon Footprint tonnes of CO e 4,148 3,927 8,075 3,617 3,490 2 Intensity ratio tonnes of CO e per m 191.2 17.4 32.6 17.8 18.0 2 Figures stated to take into account corrections made to our carbon footprint calculations as well as the inclusion of new business.
The intensity ratio has increased by 14.8 tonnes of CO e per total million sales revenue, from the table above it can be seen that the 2 increase is attributable to the acquisitions and in the main this is due to the production of a nutrition supplement that is manufactured at Genera.
Please refer to case study below.
Case Study: Our Environment Special Nutrition Supplement Production The production of the nutrition supplement, a pellet based feed, uses approximately 80% of the natural gas and approximately 40% of the electricity consumption at the Genera site.
The equipment required for the production of this supplement operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 11 months of the year.
The production process involves pellets being loaded into a coater unit and being tumbled on a rotating drum whilst a coating liquid sprays through nozzles onto their surface.
Hot drying air is used to evaporate the solvent leaving behind a layer of coating.
The heating process utilises steam produced by the central boilers, whereas electricity is used for the coating of the pellets and the supply of compressed air.
The compressed air is used in the manufacturing processes throughout the site.
Once the pellets have sufficient coating they are discharged from the machine and any moisture evaporated from the product is exhausted with the drying air and recycled and heated for re-use.
The coating spray solution is ethanol based, and on completion of the coating, the ethanol vapour is extracted into a recovery plant which recycles 95% of the ethanol back into the production process.
To meet environmental legislation, the site has an ethanol recycling unit which alone consumes approximately 60% of the energy utilised in this production area.
