Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Making a positive impact As an established British business with stores all over the UK and parts of Europe, OUR PEOPLE DFS has an incredible opportunity to be an environmental leader and to help our customers live better.
We know that retailers can sometimes be part of the problem and that achieving a sustainable society is a long journey.
The continuing success of DFS owes a great deal to the exceptional team of We want to effectively and efficiently deliver real value for our customers, employees, people that we employ.
shareholders, suppliers, and the people in the communities in which we operate.
Throughout our interaction with all these parties, we aim to make a positive impact on We remain strongly committed to helping society and the environment in support of the Groups longer term commercial and all our employees to make the most of strategic objectives.
their talents through our continuing programmes of training and development.
Internal training courses are accredited to National Standards and this year we ENVIRONMENT delivered more than 5,000 days of formal training in a wide variety of areas from core skills in sales and administration and DFS aims to improve the environmental performance of our operations year on year, practical health and safety training to real especially focusing on energy efficiency, reducing waste and managing climate change behavioural development through our risks.
We also work hard to reduce the impacts of our distribution.
The Group has an Energy Management Policy to support the reduction of the Groups Our apprenticeship programme continues energy use where practical and consistent with the operational needs of the business.
to go from strength to strength, with seven Last year we achieved ISO 14001 accreditation for our head office operations and of our first Service Manager intake group this year successfully extended this across our retail operations in the UK and now having full time permanent positions Republic of Ireland.
The programme has been expanded during the year with separate Greenhouse gas data groups of approximately ten apprentices Intensity measure recruited in our retail and manufacturing Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e per employee 2 2 operations as well as a second intake of 2016 2015 2016 2015 service manager apprentices.
We were Scope 1 10,969 11,888 2.8 3.2 pleased to receive the Youth Employment, Scope 2 17,122 19,123 4.3 5.2 Talent Management & Recruitment award Total 28,091 31,011 7.1 8.4 at the UK Employee Experience Awards for the second year running, recognising the high quality of the programme.
Electricity use is a significant contributor Waste management remains an important to the Groups CO emissions.
We have consideration for the Group and we have 2 DFS firmly believes in the benefits of a continued to invest in low energy LED introduced internal store league tables for diverse workforce.
The gender analysis of lighting for our stores, both retro-fitting waste volumes to further encourage and employee numbers is reported to the across our existing estate and introducing promote this.
Biomass systems installed operating board on a monthly basis and as standard in new stores opened during at our wood mills allow us to use waste we have a number of strategic initiatives the period.
We have also introduced wood to heat our factories.
We are underway to enhance our gender balance.
energy efficient lighting in two of our UK pleased to have this year achieved zero The gender balance of employees at July factories.
These initiatives have delivered a waste to landfill from our head office 2016 is as follows: significant contribution to the decrease in operations and an overall 92.1% landfill our overall emissions figures.
diversion across our UK and Republic of Ireland operations.
Our long term goal remains zero waste to landfill from all of our operations.
indb 28 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 Making a positive impact Our dedication to bringing comfort into peoples lives doesnt stop at sofas.
OUR PEOPLE July 2016 July 2015 Female Male Female Male Directors 2 33% 4 67% 2 29% 5 71% Senior managers 2 22% 7 78% 3 19% 13 81% All employees 1,378 34% 2,702 66% 1,216 33% 2,501 67% As our business goes from strength to employees which include manager We were delighted to once again obtain strength, we recognise the importance of briefings, company presentations and external recognition for excellence in effective communication.
We want to conferences, as well as regular newsletters, employee conditions by the award for the improve all our employees experience while including a monthly update directly from the third year running of Top Employer they work for us, making sure that every Chief Executive.
Employee views are sought certification from the Top Employers Institute.
team member has the information that they through regular feedback sessions with Health and Safety need at their fingertips, whether thats the directors and an active programme of The health and well-being of our employees, latest DFS news, employee benefits and employee engagement surveys, the results customers and partners is extremely special offers or to simply check their of which are communicated back to staff.
important to DFS, and we have placed an employment details.
DFS aims to support the health and welfare increased focus on continuing improvement During the year we were pleased to be able of our employees and their families through in managing health and safety risks across to launch our own employee APP, My DFS, a variety of initiatives including life and all of the Groups operations.
The Board which allows us to keep all employees critical illness cover, and an employee receives regular updates on performance, informed about whats going on in the assistance service.
It is the policy of the including reporting of any significant issues organisation more quickly and easily, Group to support the employment of at each meeting.
Unfortunately, in 2015 an particularly for those colleagues who are disabled people, wherever possible, both incident occurred in one of our factories field based.
My DFS also hosts information in recruitment and by retention of employees which resulted in the injury of one of our relevant to employees, and allows the user who become disabled whilst in the employees.
During the year the Health & to tailor the information they see.
employment of the Group as well as Safety Executive have verbally advised us generally through training and career that they are intending to prosecute the Our employee APP complements our development.
Group in relation to this incident.
No formal existing routes for communication with proceedings have commenced as at the date of this report and we have made appropriate provision in our accounts in the Management development event of an adverse outcome.
This year has seen our biggest ever We have reinforced our commitment to the ongoing development of our employees investment in health and safety training with through the introduction of an Effective Management Programme.
This programme is more than 120 managers and supervisors targeted at managers, specialists and business partners right across the Group and is passing the level 2 IOSH Managing Safely delivered in small group forums designed to bring people from diverse parts of our course.
In addition there has been extensive organisation together.
The programme, which has been approved and validated by training in manual handling, fire marshalling the Chartered Management Institute, includes comprehensive 360 degree feedback and vehicle management, plus enhanced and more than five days of dedicated workshops.
job-specific training with a focus on our manufacturing and supply chain operations.
The Effective Management Programme is complemented by a growing portfolio of We have also launched a bespoke health one day management skills workshops to form part of a personal development toolkit.
and safety e-learning programme to To date some 79 individuals have successfully completed the programme and we enhance the consistency of induction and have already seen improved collaboration and synergies throughout the Group, with refresher training.
better communication and an interdependent approach to projects.
29 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED OUR CUSTOMERS Team GB partnership However talented the individuals, we firmly believe that we can achieve more as Our customers are at the very heart of our a team and our partnership with Team GB provided an engaging and inspiring business so in pursuit of our vision of DFS platform to bring our employees together.
being a world-class British business we need to deliver an outstanding experience DFS employees experienced a variety of Team GB themed events from our for our customers, at all times.
company conference through to a head office team-building Olympics.
Our three participating Brand Ambassadors visited DFS sites, at key milestones like We make significant investment in 100 Days to go, and former athlete and Brand Ambassador Denise Lewis spent employee training and incentivisation to a week travelling around the business meeting the teams and sharing her deliver the highest levels of customer sporting experiences.
service and ensure that we treat our customers well.
Staff performance and We also launched a reward and recognition programme across the whole customer satisfaction are monitored business to celebrate the achievements of the DFS team on the back of our though regular inspections, surveys and Team GB partnership.
Individuals were rewarded regularly for exemplifying our mystery shoppers, which are carried out company values and going the extra mile.
Four hardworking employees got to through an independent consumer experience the Olympics in person with the ultimate prizes being packages to research group.
Rio, inspiring all our employees to be world class in everything they do.
Customer referral is the perfect indicator of excellent customer satisfaction and we use Net Promoter Score NPS as a measure of recommendation, which provides us with an internationally recognised predictor with proven links to business success.
Established Customer NPS forms a component of remuneration for employees throughout the business, including salespeople, management and head office teams and Executive Directors.
indb 30 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 OUR PRODUCTS AND SUPPLIERS AMOUNT RAISED FOR BBC CHILDREN IN NEED DFS goes to great lengths to ensure the visits by our operational and senior 750,000 quality and safety of all the products it management.
DFS has led the industry in sells.
Our own detailed quality checks are establishing quality level agreements with supported by the use of independent all suppliers: these set targets for ways of safety specialists, and all upholstered working and service outcomes together furniture items are offered with a with a dedicated forum for working in 15 year guarantee.
partnership with supplies to monitor and improve performance, including We have longstanding relationships with compliance with our ethical trading our upholstery suppliers and close contact requirements.
with them is maintained through frequent COMMUNITY DFS has worked in partnership with the DFS remains a Gold Partner of the Duke British Heart Foundation since 2012, of Edinburghs Award, supporting young implementing an innovative sofa recycling people to develop new skills for work and scheme to give our customers a means of life and contribute to their communities.
disposing of their old sofa while This includes our apprentices, who simultaneously raising money for the complete the Gold award as part of their charity.
We are very proud that since its apprenticeship programme.
A similar inception in 2012 this scheme has raised arrangement is in place in the Republic of more than 10 million to help fund vital Ireland where DFS is a Gold Partner of research into coronary heart disease.
In addition, our association with the British In addition to the major national charities Heart Foundation has supported the above, DFS supports a number of training of more than 600 new and existing charities and initiatives based locally to employees in CPR skills and defibrillator our operations, particularly those awareness that will help more people promoting opportunities for young people.
survive an out of hospital cardiac arrest.
Charitable donations made by the Group during the year amounted to 263,099 We have also continued our support for FY15: 264,011.
BBC Children in Need for a third year, This Strategic Report was approved by raising 750,000 through a variety of the Board on 5 October 2016. activities including offering customers a chance to win their entire order for free by On behalf of the Board entering a monthly draw.
Ian Filby Nicola Bancroft Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Officer 31 25579 DFS RA BOOK.
