Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:16 Page 35 Dignity plc 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Corporate and social responsibility Operating sustainably and responsibly.
Richard Portman, Corporate Services Director Introduction We believe that operating sustainably and responsibly is Our objective is not only to provide and enhance the reputation of fundamental to creating long-term value.
At the heart of our Dignity but also to promote and embed a culture of responsibility business is a commitment to doing the right thing: behaving and performance that adds value to our clients, our people, our ethically, working safely, reducing our environmental impact, shareholders and the local communities we serve.
attracting and developing our people and having a positive social impact in our communities.
Our corporate responsibility activities are an important way for us to deliver upon our strategic objectives.
We believe that the best way to build a sustainable business is to act in the long-term interests of all our stakeholders, in addition to making a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate.
To support the delivery of our strategic objectives we have four key areas of responsible and sustainable focus Business integrity and ethics Health, Safety and Environmental performance Our commitment to high and ethical standards strengthens Our business is conducted in such a way as to ensure as far as our reputation with clients and other stakeholders.
We build is reasonably practical, the health, safety and welfare of all our trust and respect with everyone touched by our business employees and all persons who may be attending our premises.
operations our clients, our colleagues, our suppliers, We are committed to maintaining the quality of the environment trade associations, local authorities and members of the in which we all live and we aim to reduce the impact of our communities we serve.
Everyone at Dignity understands that operations so that we act in an environmentally friendly manner.
at all times they are an ambassador for Dignity and that the Priorities future success of the business depends on its reputation.
Ensure the health and safety of our people at work.
Priorities Reducing energy consumption and our environmental Ensure we operate with integrity.
Adhere to our Code of Conduct and high standard practices.
Proactive management, accountability and transparency with regards to our environmental footprint.
Maintain legal and regulatory compliance and ethical decision-making.
Outcome for the business Outcome for the business Supports our sustainable development by working safely and reducing our environmental impact.
Maintain our reputation for integrity.
Our people Building strong relationships and community impact We value our people and understand, respect and value We are committed to building strong relationships with personal and cultural differences.
Dignity is committed to high all our stakeholders, making a difference to the clients we standards of employment practice and aims to encourage, serve and positively contributing to the local communities retain and develop successful employees.
Priorities Priorities Promote equal opportunities and diversity.
Build closer relationships locally, developing a greater understanding of community and clients needs.
Recruit, train and develop local people.
Operate with due regard for human rights.
Participate in activities that make a difference.
Act in the long-term interests of all our stakeholders.
Outcome for the business Outcome for the business Attract and retain the best people.
Enhances business reputation, sustains longevity and contributes to local communities.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 36 Governance 37 65 Financial Statements 66 117 Other Information 118 120 Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:16 Page 36 Dignity plc 33 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Reward and recognition Why CSR is important to Dignity Promoting a culture of responsibility, working to the highest standards In a competitive marketplace we recognise the importance and practices, developing our people and delivering operational of financially rewarding employees appropriately for the value efficiencies form key elements of our values and business strategy.
they bring to the business.
Managing and differentiating Conducting our business responsibly enables us to meet our performance is critical to ensuring our staff fulfil their obligations to our stakeholders and delivers real business benefits by potential and the delivery of our objectives.
Dignity has helping us create long-term value.
rewarded its loyal staff with Long Service Awards totalling We define our reporting in terms of our workplace, the environment 0.2 million in 2016. and communities in which we play an important part.
We strive to improve the way we perform, manage and report on corporate social responsibility CSR matters across all aspects of our business.
THE STRENGTH AND QUALITY OFOUR PEOPLE Learning and development Dignitys investment in training enables our staff to provide our Governance, strategy and objectives clients with the highest standards of service and care and to The Board places a high priority on attracting and retaining ensure that our rigorous procedures are followed in all branches.
the right people as an integral part of our strategic objective of In 2016, Dignity continued to provide its staff with both relevant continuing to prioritise excellent client service which we believe job training and tutoring for professional qualifications including will lead to organic growth.
The Board is supported by a strong the National Association of Funeral Directors NAFD Diploma HR team who are dedicated to meeting the requirements of a in Funeral Directing: the London Association of Funeral Directors growing Group.
This team is responsible for the integration of LAFD Certificate in Funeral Arranging & Administration and new staff and the development and welfare of people across Membership of the British Institute of Embalming.
Personal development, planning and identification of training Our Code of Conduct is reinforced by our Staff Handbook.
needs form a key part of our performance review process.
This document ensures that we embed all new employees into We continue to provide a variety of learning and development the Dignity culture and reminds existing members of staff of opportunities, ranging from workshops and mentoring to online the standards of behaviour and attitudes that are expected of resources and internal and external training courses.
The Code of Conduct is also published on our corporate website www.
Leadership and capabilities Our focus on leadership development has delivered enhanced We adhere to the Bribery and Corruption Act of 2010 and capability in our talent pipeline, through a more rigorous and have policies and procedures to minimise the risk of bribery.
consistent approach to assessing and developing talent and a This is also published on our corporate website and we have greater focus on development plans.
We consistently challenge advised our suppliers that our Bribery Policy is available on ourselves to have the right skills and competencies to support that website.
We believe that this is best achieved through a balance of recruiting the very best external candidates Culture, engagement and communication to bring fresh approaches and perspectives, whilst also Communication, engagement and inclusion are at the heart developing our existing employees.
We continue to focus on of our culture.
To achieve our business objectives we need building new relationships with universities and opportunities engaged employees dedicated to our vision and values.
We aim for apprentice programmes while continuing to expand our to provide an inclusive and collaborative culture that values internal learning offerings and other development opportunities.
every individual and provides the tools and opportunities to fulfil their potential and add value to the business.
Diversity and inclusion With operations across the UK we have a diverse and engaged Dignity has continued to publish a quarterly in-house magazine, workforce that reflects our geographic footprint and their local Dignity Express, to enable the Companys Directors, managers knowledge.
Dignity was awarded the Two Ticks Positive About and employees to communicate objectives and client satisfaction Disability Symbol by Jobcentre Plus in 2014 and has continued results: explain developments in the funeral sector and to share to employ, retain and develop the abilities of disabled people.
best practice and news in a cost effective manner.
Dignity Dignity continues to be a member of Business Disability Express is supplemented by monthly bulletins and a number Forum, a not-for-profit organisation that encourages the fair of communications specific to certain parts of the business treatment of disabled people in the workplace and their to keep all employees informed of what is happening within community.
Polly OBrien, Client Service Advisor, Sutton Coldfield.
Vivien Russell, Administrator, Ravenhill Funerals, Belfast.
Stephen Knox, Trainee Funeral Director, Ravenhill Funerals, Belfast.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:16 Page 37 Dignity plc 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Our people support our growth ambitions Corporate and social responsibility Building a strong and diverse business that attracts, retains, continued develops, engages and inspires the right people with the right skills is central to supporting both our core purpose of delivering excellent client service and our growth ambitions.
We believe that the quality of our people is a strong enabler of business growth and we develop our employees capabilities so that they can fulfil their potential and help us reach ours.
THE STRENGTH AND QUALITY OFOUR PEOPLE CONTINUED WORKING SAFELY IN THE WORKPLACE Dignity is committed to protecting, as far as reasonably practicable, the health and safety of its employees and visitors to its premises.
Our employees recognise this commitment and Attracting and retaining Long service that workplace safety remains a key priority.
Working in a safe the best people We want to attract and retain % environment allows our people to focus on delivering excellent 22 loyal employees who add value service to our clients.
Protecting our people also supports to what we do and recognising and 22 per cent of Dignity staff employee engagement and retention.
rewarding performance and long have over 10 years service.
service plays a key part in this.
Governance and management Dignity has a full-time Head of Health and Safety who is supported by eight Health & Safety Officers with a broad collective experience Career development Gender diversity from differing organisational backgrounds.
Dignitys Head Office, We believe in nurturing talent, % crematoria and coffin manufacturing factory also have their own providing experience and formal 24 qualifications, enabling our managers with responsibility for Health and Safety.
In the last people to excel and create the 24 per cent of Dignitys senior eight years the number of accidents has reduced by 27 per cent.
middle and senior managers managers are female.
Dignity continues to proactively monitor health and safety through of the future.
quarterly analysis, inspection of premises, surveillance and regular % reports to the Board and monitors reactively by investigating 33 accidents and analysing statistics.
33 per cent of Dignitys senior Dignitys coffin manufacturing facility in East Yorkshire has and middle managers are female.
OHSAS 18001 accreditation officially recognising the factory as a safe and healthy environment in which to work.
Heath and safety performance Employee diversity Our Health & Safety team have worked diligently to reduce incidents and have focused on improving our safety culture, Totalemployees ratio %& number Senior managers % & number behaviours and risk reduction.
We continue to implement and build on these activities, monitor compliance and proactively identify areas requiring action with the intention of further risk reduction across the business.
3,154 Driving continuous improvement We have a strong culture of safety and operational excellence Male 76% 25 senior managers Male 49% 1,551 employees and through continuous improvement we focus on delivering Female 51% 1,603 employees Female 24% 8 senior managers excellent client service.
Our aim is to continue providing excellent leadership in the pursuit of safe and environmentally responsible workplaces.
Reduction in reportable Employee service % & number Positive about disability Health & safety training number accidents 12 % 27 92 In the last eight years the number of accidents has reduced by 274 27 per cent.
0 25 50 7 5 1 00 125 150 175 200 22 5 250 275 Less than 1 year: 18% 580 employees Dignity remains committed to 14 years: 38% 1,187 employees employing, retaining and developing Employees with NEBOSH qualification: 12 59 years: 21% 677 employees the abilities of disabled employees.
Employees with IOSH qualification: 92 1019 years: 16% 493 employees Over 20 years: 7% 217 employees Employees with CIEH qualification: 274 Integrity, ethics and human rights FTSE4Good Modern Slavery Act At Dignity we are committed to our Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy Dignity is compliant with the Modern Slavery Act of 2015 and we are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human which reflects the way we operate.
All staff within Dignity are expected trafficking in our supply chains or in any part of our business.
to act with integrity and treat people fairly, with courtesy and respect, be responsible, respect diversity and communicate openly.
To ensure that we are complaint we complete house audits: conduct spot checks and use labour monitoring and payroll systems.
A revised Dignity continues to be identified by the FTSE Group in its FTSE4Good version of our Chief Executives statement on the Modern Slavery Act initiative as a company that is working towards environmental can be found on our corporate website www.
sustainability, developing positive relationships with stakeholders and supporting universal human rights.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 36 Governance 37 65 Financial Statements 66 117 Other Information 118 120 Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:16 Page 38 Dignity plc 35 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 External recognition of our sustainability performance Reducing our carbon footprint and environmental impact As part of the Groups ongoing commitment to reducing its carbon footprint and environmental impacts, Dignity has been reporting to the CDP since 2008.
Raw materials and sustainable sourcing Our coffins are manufactured using raw materials that are sourced from well managed and sustainable sources.
ISO 14001 accreditation Dignitys coffin manufacturing facility has ISO 14001 accreditation which demonstrates our commitment to environmental management.
MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT In 2016, our business continued to have a low environmental Greenhouse gas emissions reporting for 2016 impact and its activities are not expected to give rise to any The Group reports its greenhouse gas to CDP on an annual basis in significant environmental risk over the next twelve months.
tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent resulting from the combustion of All waste generated is properly disposed of in accordance fuel direct scope 1 Emissions and that resulting from the purchase of with current legislation and steps are taken to recycle waste electricity indirect scope 2 Emissions.
The emissions for the last five years are as follows: wherever this is practical.
Total 22,722 22,443 21,826 22,228 22,958 Dignitys coffin manufacturing facility has ISO 14001 Per FTE Employee 8.0 8.2 8.5 9.0 10.0 accreditation, an internationally accepted standard for an effective environmental management system that is designed Our energy consumption figures over the same periods are: to address the balance between maintaining profitability and reducing environmental impact.
Our coffins are manufactured 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 using raw materials that are sourced from well-managed and MWh 91,413 87,730 86,738 91,315 88,573 sustainable sources.
96 per cent of the coffins manufactured by Dignity are from Forest Stewardship Council FSC Methodology accredited timber.
Our greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated on a per full time equivalent employee ratio.
This intensity metric is the best measure CDP available to the Group given the diversity of the property portfolio, the As part of Dignitys ongoing commitment to reducing its carbon three separate divisions of the business, and the absence of a similar footprint and environmental impacts, Dignity has been reporting business to benchmark against.
to the CDP formerly Carbon Disclosure Project since 2008.
We have calculated our scope 1 and scope 2 GHG emissions since 2010 The CDP is a not-for-profit organisation that aims to reduce and have recently engaged with Ecometrica Ltd to assist with the carbon impacts on the environment by measuring disclosures from emissions reporting, which supports greater transparency and accuracy thousands of organisations across the worlds major economies.
Emissions have derived from accurate consumption information CDP encourages best practice in reporting and reducing on utility bills, smart meter readings and fuel card data.
environmental impact through a scoring process.
Scoring is GHG emissions have been calculated in accordance with the GHG based on a number of criteria designed to assess our Energy Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, Management practices and Environmental Strategy, specifically using the location based on scope 2 calculation method together with the latest emission factors from recognised public sources, principally around Performance and Reporting, Risk Management, and Defra DECC.
Dignitys carbon emissions disclosure has been undertaken Business Strategy in relation to Climate Change.
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Dignitys 2016 submission achieved a B rating, our best ever result.
During the period, Dignity also reported on water and waste management for the first time under the scope 3 requirements.
ESOS compliance Percentage index graph scope 1 & 2 7 Year Total Shareholder Return Dignity qualifies for the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS.
Having completed an ESOS assessment during 2015 170 we are not required to submit another report until 2019.
150 130 Smart energy management 110 Waste reduction initiatives % Unwanted materials are divided 93 90 into categories: general waste 70 We had fitted 1,055 electric and cardboard.
Waste at smart meters by the end of approximately 200 Dignity 50 the period with a further 79 premises is now collected by 30 remaining to be fitted in 2017. the same contractor allowing 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 This represents 93 per cent of us to measure usage with the estate where such meters Total C02 greater accuracy and reduce FTE Employees may be fitted.
the amount of waste deposited Services perfomed in landfill sites.
In addition, we had fitted 517 Operating profit m Revenue m gas loggers by the end of the Energy MWh period with a further 56 remaining to be fitted in 2017.
This represents 90 per cent of the estate.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Per cent Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:16 Page 39 Dignity plc 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Find out more Further details on our CSR Corporate and social responsibility activities, performance and case continued studies can be found on Dignitys website: www.
co. uk responsibility AT THE HEART OF OUR LOCAL COMMUNITIES Helping people at one of the most difficult times in their lives is 2 2 our core social purpose and contributing to the communities in which we operate benefits both local people and our business.
It helps to promote awareness of our brand and values, As the ultimate people business, our employees enhances our reputation, promotes employee engagement are keen to support their local communities and and attracts new clients to our business.
Making a meaningful charities in any way they can help to make a difference to the local communities we serve remains a key difference.
This effort is operated on local and quality of our business.
national levels to great effect through volunteering, Our operations are located across many UK towns and cities fundraising activities and donations.
and as such we have an important role in supporting our communities.
We continue to build strong links with the communities in which we operate through local engagement and fundraising for charities.
Local community engagement and charitable support Our community relationships and charitable programmes are primarily managed at a local level to allow our businesses to focus on the needs of their local communities.
Our people support many local community initiatives and charitable events every year.
1 2 Supporting Marie Curie since 2012 Dignitys new corporate charity 2017 British Heart Foundations mission is to win the fight against In 2016, Dignity raised 40,000 for its corporate charity, Marie Curie, and over the last five years our staff have helped to raise over cardiovascular disease and their vision is a world in which people do not die prematurely or suffer from cardiovascular disease.
300,000 in support of this vital charity.
There are nine Marie Curie hospices located in Belfast, Bradford, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Hampstead, Heart disease touches us all, including staff and clients.
From raising London, Liverpool, Penarth and Solihull.
Each Dignity branch and money, to raising awareness, corporate partnerships are vital to crematoria was linked with their local Marie Curie fundraising helping beat heart disease.
office so that the money that is raised will care for local patients Working in partnership with The British Heart Foundation will bring in their community.
benefits to our business whilst helping to raise vital funds to fight Fundraising initiatives included charity car washes, second-hand book heart disease.
The new partnership will enable Dignity to: sales, a pop music concert featuring Elvis and Abba tribute acts and Motivate staff and encourage team building: Christmas memorial trees.
Dignity also raised money for Marie Curie by taking part in national campaigns such as The Great Daffodil Meet our Corporate Social Responsibility objectives: Appeal, where branches sold the charitys lapel badges and The Help beat heart disease in the communities in which we operate by Blooming Great Tea Party where visitors could purchase hot drinks training staff in CPR techniques and installing defibrillators at some and homemade cakes for a charitable donation.
of our buildings: Reach new audiences: and Build brand profile.
Oliver Coote, Funeral Director, L Fulcher Funeral Directors, Bury St Edmunds.
Sandra Whiteside, Funeral Manager, Ravenhill Funerals, Belfast.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 36 Governance 37 65 Financial Statements 66 117 Other Information 118 120 Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:16 Page 40 Dignity plc 37 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Governance section How the Dignity Board sets strategic direction and provides oversight and control.
In this section Statement of Code Compliance Dignity plc is subject to the UK Corporate Governance 38 Chairmans introduction to governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council 39 Our governance structure available at frc.
uk, which was published in September 2014.
As a listed company, Dignity is required to report on 40 Board of Directors how it has applied the principles of the Code and this is set 42 Directors statement on corporate governance out in the following pages.
The Board is pleased to report that 46 Audit Committee report Dignity has complied with all of the provisions of the Code throughout the period ended 30 December 2016 and to the 49 Nomination Committee report date of this document, with the exception of a short period 50 Report on Directors remuneration between Martin Pexton having stepped down from the Board on 3 February 2017 until the appointment of Mary 64 Directorsreport McNamara on 1 March 2017 where the Group did not fully Financial Statements comply with provision B.
1.2 of the Code which requires that least half the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors.
Our governance principles LEADERSHIP Continued close focus on delivering on our strategy.
EFFECTIVENESS A strong, open and effective Board with the independence of our Non-Executive Directors.
ACCOUNTABILITY Continued close scrutiny and management of risk coupled with the implementation and monitoring of effective controls.
REMUNERATION Prudent oversight of Executive remuneration.
ENGAGEMENT Maintaining a strong and open and two way relationship with shareholders.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016
