Corporate social responsibility Safer young drivers While progressing our broad Corporate Social Responsibility strategy, we have increased our focus on road safety as the area where we have some of the clearest and strongest expertise in the UK.
We are using our position as Britains leading car insurer to try to inspire a generation of safer young drivers and make a radical and measurable change to the level of young driver deaths.
Approach Helping to make our society safer Our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR strategy helps us We recognise that our products, services and operations affect put societys interests at the heart of our business.
The strategy our many stakeholders so we seek to make our society safer for has four strands.
As shown in the graphic, they are Helping everyone.
Our current focus is on road safety.
We believe we to make our society safer, Proud to be here, Recognised can responsibly use our expertise and experience to reduce as part of our communities and Reduce, Reuse and Recycle.
deaths and life changing injuries on Britains roads.
We manage our strategy through our CSR Advisory Group, Safer young drivers which comprises senior managers from across the business.
Our sustainability team supports the Advisory Group.
Individual In December last year we launched Shotgun, a free members of our Executive Committee are accountable for each smartphone app that aims to reduce road deaths among strand of the strategy.
The CSR Committees role is to oversee new young drivers.
In the UK, around half a million 17 to 25 year olds pass their To help us understand, prioritise, and respond to the sometimes driving test each year.
It is a significant rite of passage for competing needs of our different stakeholders across society, many young people, but it is also a time when young drivers we partner with several leading CSR organisations.
are at their most vulnerable.
Our data shows that accident rates among young drivers are, perhaps not surprisingly, You can find more details of our approach on the Groups enormously higher during the first year of driving, with one website at www.
com, including our CSR in five young drivers having some form of accident during this Charter, policy framework, performance against last years time.
Young drivers are also hugely over-represented in the targets, and targets for 2017. most serious accidents.
There are various reasons why young drivers crash: these To find out more about our CSR Committee, see page 72 include over-confidence, a natural human urge to test personal boundaries and take risks, and little experience of recognising hidden hazards.
Using road-safety data and our knowledge of driver behaviour, we identified contextual speed speed relative to other safe road users as a significant cause of fatal and serious crashes involving young drivers.
In particular, the first 1,000 miles for a new driver are critical: this is when the gap between perceived and actual driving competence drives much higher risk.
In response, we have set ourselves the ambitious goal of cutting deaths in the first 1,000 miles to zero across the UK.
Proud to be here We will, of course, need to work with many other stakeholders to achieve this goal.
30 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The biggest barrier to addressing this issue is that young drivers often feel immune to the risks.
Our goal of inspiring a generation of safe and careful drivers sits at odds with many of the motivations of new drivers.
Young drivers, especially young men, can be pro-risk and competitive.
From our surveys, we found that many believe that most people drive faster than the speed limit and that good driving means travelling as fast as you can.
To change behaviour, we must change this perspective.
Shotgun acts as the wingman for newly qualified drivers and was developed with their direct input.
Through GPS technology on a users smartphone, Shotgun uses the best of our telematics capability to assess driving performance, evaluating smoothness, contextual speed and a number of other factors to generate a score for each journey taken.
Each user builds up a personal score which is a core indicator of accident risk.
In turn, this score earns app users a place on the Shotgun leaderboard, gamifying the experience and allowing users to compete with their peers.
Shotgun re-frames what it takes to be a good driver, and explodes the myth that everybody else is driving fast.
The app also gives users detailed feedback, highlighting what they have done well, and how During 2017, we are focusing on delivering against this they could improve their driving score next time.
We will run a series of attitudinal research studies hit pre-determined point thresholds, they unlock rewards.
to track our users attitude to driving.
In addition, the Shotgun This encourages drivers to use the app through 1,000 miles app will give us a rich source of data allowing us to measure and to improve their performance still further to earn ever more improvements to driving performance over time.
Road safety partners We are working with various reward partners, including Boost During 2016, we worked with various partners to highlight and Virgin Experience.
Shotgun offers rewards which are a range of road safety issues.
attractive to a 17 to 25 year old demographic.
Our research showed we needed a range of reward options that appealed PACTS to different tastes and to both urban and more rural users.
In November, we launched our third Road Safety Dashboard with the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety To launch the app we used the same leading-edge thinking PACTS.
This pioneering tool uses Department for Transport that won Direct Line a coveted Institute of Practitioners in statistics to produce an index that ranks the road safety record Advertising Gold award for Effectiveness.
The Shotgun launch of individual parliamentary constituencies.
MPs tell us they find represented a departure from traditional advertising, in a bid the tool valuable.
In July, we also ran an event in Parliament at to engage the target audience using channels that are relevant.
which 33 parliamentarians signed up to our pledge to improve This moves the topic of road safety into a more social space, road safety awareness.
We also sponsored the PACTS Annual with a particular focus on personal platforms like Instagram, Westminster Transport Safety Lecture in the House of Commons You Tube and Snapchat.
The strategy was to create content where policymakers and campaigners come together to share in a range of formats, based on creative ideas that resonate ideas and best practice.
These were seeded with carefully chosen partners to build saliency and drive momentum.
They are also Department for Transport quite a bit edgier than our traditional marketing messages.
We continue to engage proactively with the Department for We put in place a communication plan for a diverse range Transport on various topics, including telematics technology, of audiences young drivers, of course, were central but driverless cars and road safety policy.
also their parents as well as our own employees.
Making sure we capture all of these groups is critical.
For our staff, our Brake approach has been to create awareness, build understanding We maintained our partnership with road safety charity, and drive engagement across the business.
We want our Brake, to produce a series of survey reports on driver behaviour people to be proud of our shared belief that the know-how and and attitudes.
We released the results to the media to raise power of Direct Line can be a real force for good in the UK.
awareness of road safety issues and educate the public.
We also want our employees to become active advocates for This years reports have covered drink driving, eating and this initiative in their local communities right across the country.
drinking at the wheel, texting while driving, winter driving and speed awareness in urban areas.
Brake uses this From our research and testing, we know we can engage research for its wider campaigning, education, community and with this vulnerable audience and change both their attitudes professional engagement activities.
We also sponsored Brakes to driving and materially improve their driving behaviour, Parliamentarian of the Year Awards, which recognise Members making a real change in their chances of being killed or of Parliament who have campaigned on road safety issues.
com 31 Corporate social responsibility continued Reduce, Reuse and Recycle Proud to be here We aim to manage our operations sustainably and have Our people strategy supports our business strategy, ensuring progressed well in reducing our impact on the environment.
we have capable, skilled and engaged people that can help make insurance easier and better value for our customers.
Emissions We continue to focus on building pride in Direct Line Group, You can find information on Group-wide greenhouse gas encouraging and celebrating the strength of our workforce.
GHG emissions in the chart below and more details Various volunteer groups, such as our Employee Representative of our emissions in the Directors report on page 112.
Bodies and Local Co-ordination Teams, increase our employees voice.
Last year we invited employees to Energy use is the main cause of our emissions.
In absolute participate in research to help shape their future way of terms, we have reduced our emissions significantly after working.
The research considered how the future working rationalising and implementing an energy-savings plan environment, technology and culture could give our people across our estate.
This covered location management, the tools they need to live and work at their best.
air-conditioning, heating and lighting, for instance.
We are targeting a 30% like-for-like reduction in the Groups energy We also invested significantly in a new Graduate Programme.
The Programme offers opportunities equally to existing employees and new applicants and will help further drive We communicate the details of a carbon management the pipeline of qualified, bright young people coming into programme through the Carbon Disclosure Project.
2016, 100% of the Groups electricity was purchased on a green tariff.
Employee feedback remains an important gauge of how our initiatives affect change.
In 2016 our people managers Waste created over 900 action plans to improve their teams We have further improved our systems for managing waste experience.
Again this played a major part in significantly and increased the percentage of waste we recycle at our UK improving our engagement score from 60% in 2015 to 73%.
Accident Repair Centres to 61% from 54% in 2015 and at our The percentage of our employees who are proud to work for office sites to 42% from 40% in 2015.
These figures exclude the Group also increased from 80% in 2015 to 87%, while paper waste which is 100% recycled.
Including paper, we 81% tell others that the Group is a great place to work recycled 80% of waste at our UK Accident Repair Centres and 70% in 2015.
All of our office waste is diverted from landfill, including recycling.
Diversity, inclusion and human rights We continue to work towards an environment based on Suppliers meritocracy and inclusion, where every employee can achieve Our Ethical Code for Suppliers sets out our approach to their full potential, whatever their background or situation.
managing CSR related matters across our supply chain.
We support the aims of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and are Our diversity and inclusion practices are in line with the committed to ensuring that modern slavery is not present in our Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Our Ethical Code supply chain.
We have extended our Ethical Code to expressly for Suppliers requires that all our suppliers adhere to the cover this commitment.
In accordance with the Act, we publish core International Labour Organisation standards.
an annual statement on slavery and human trafficking on the Group website at www.
Greenhouse gas 1 emissions tonnes 14y 15y 16y 14.6% Note: 1.
This excludes discontinued operations, the Groups former International division.
Total Group emissions for 2014 and 2015 were 28,759 and 23,143, respectively 32 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 3,222.1 27,308 22,611 19,315 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In 2016, the Group signed up to the Women in Finance Examples of activities include: Charter.
The Charter is a commitment by HM Treasury and 780 employees manning our call centres to take pledges signatory firms to work together to build a more balanced and for appeals such as Stand Up to Cancer, Comic Relief and fairer industry.
Our pledge to the Charter reinforces our other Children in Need: initiatives such as our Diversity Network Alliance in promoting diversity and inclusion in our business.
The Group committed to supporting national appeals such as the Worlds Biggest increase female representation in senior management to 30% Coffee Morning in aid of Macmillan and raising funds by the end of 2019. during Movember for various mens health charities: and organising quiz nights, fun runs, masquerade balls, festivals, You can find the ratio of female-to-male employees at cake sales, sky dives, charity football matches and much 31 December 2016 in the charts below.
more to raise thousands of pounds for local causes.
In 2016, the Group was proud to be named in the OUTstanding Power Lists.
We started working with OUTstanding, a professional We encourage all employees to volunteer individually or network of executives committed to diversity, alongside other as a team through our One Day initiative.
partner organisations to help shape our plans and bring new Our Employee Opinion Survey revealed that 33% of staff ideas and thinking on diversity and inclusion.
volunteered or fundraised in company time last year.
Our target Living wage for 2017 is to at least maintain this high level of engagement.
We comply with the principles of the Living Wage Foundation, Matched giving and grants relating to our employees.
In 2016, our employees donated 149,000 through our payroll giving scheme and we donated a further 100,000 in matched giving.
We also provided 68,250 in grants to Recognised as part of our communities organisations for which our employees fundraise or volunteer.
We believe that our peoples feelings about working for the Group are linked to our reputation in the community and we therefore try to align our approach to giving more generally with their interests.
Volunteering and fundraising We know that participating in fundraising and volunteering is linked to higher engagement levels amongst our people.
In order to encourage our people to participate, therefore, we run a network of Community and Social Committees which are made up of local volunteers.
These receive central funding and support from the Group to support Group-wide national appeals and create a programme of events and activities based on the interests of employees at their sites.
Gender diversity Gender diversity Gender diversity of senior managers of Board of Directors of all employees Male 112 Male 7 Male 5,768 Female 32 Female 3 Female 5,209 www.
