34 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate Responsibility Employees Some of the Groups operating companies have structured Building and developing the skills, competencies, motivation apprenticeship schemes for technical staff and the Group and teamwork of employees is recognised by the Board as being provides sponsorship for high potential employees for higher essential to achieving the Groups business objectives.
The education courses where appropriate.
Vocational training is also stability and commitment of the employees is demonstrated by provided and some staff are enrolled on National Vocational the average length of service which continues to remain high.
Qualification NVQ or similar level courses.
Employees are In addition, the number of working days lost to sickness is ca.
1% actively encouraged to undertake Continuing Professional a year.
These measures remain consistent across each of the Development CPD to maintain any relevant professional Groups Sectors.
Key employee statistics In accordance with the Market Abuse Regulation of the Financial 2016 2015 2014 Conduct Authority, employees are required to seek approval of Average number of employees the Group Company Secretary before dealing in its shares.
in year 1,602 1,449 1,264 Health & safety Females as percentage of total 36% 34% 35% The Group is fully committed to ensuring clean, safe and healthy Length of service years 6.7 6.6 6.3 working conditions.
The Group actively promotes a strong Average staff turnover 24.9% 23.0% 21.5% safety culture and ensures a collective responsibility for Sick days lost per person 3.0 3.0 3.0 ensuring Health & Safety standards are continually improved.
The Group encourages healthy lifestyles and the level of sick The Chief Executive Officer has overall responsibility for Health days lost per person is heavily influenced by a small number of & Safety policies and procedures across the Group.
However, employees who are on long term sick leave.
in line with the Groups decentralised management approach, accountability for Health & Safety is with local management to Set out below is an analysis of the number of employees by ensure compliance with local regulatory requirements, culture gender at the year end.
The Group requires that each 2016 2015 operating business conducts Health & Safety reviews against its Male Female Male Female specific operational risk profile and local regulatory requirements.
Directors 5 1 6 2 The Group has this year introduced requirements for near miss Senior managers 72 21 71 19 reporting to ensure that Health & Safety hazards are proactively Employees 950 549 910 497 identified and appropriate mitigation put in place to ensure that Total 1,027 571 987 518 they do not result in Health & Safety incidents.
2016 2015 2014 The Group values the commitment of its employees and Minor injuries 87 54 55 recognises the importance of communication to good working 1 Reportable lost time incidents 11 4 5 relationships.
The Group keeps employees informed on matters Minor injuries per 1,000 relating to their employment, on business developments and on the financial and economic factors affecting the Group.
employees 54.3 37.3 43.5 1 This is achieved through management briefings, internal Reportable lost time incidents announcements, the Groups website and by the distribution per 1,000 employees 6.9 2.8 4.0 of Preliminary and Interim Announcements and press releases.
1 Three or more days absence from workplace.
Copies of the Annual Review and Annual Report & Accounts are also made available in the operating businesses.
This The absolute level of minor injuries has increased this year and communication programme enables employees to gain a better also increased when normalised to a rate per 1,000 employees.
understanding of the Groups business objectives and their roles The vast majority of these minor injuries resulted in no lost time in achieving them.
Both employment policy and practice in the and were considered low level.
The Group has improved its Group are based on non-discrimination and equal opportunities.
reporting of Health and Safety related issues and it is likely Ability and aptitude are the determining factors in the selection, that the increased number of minor incidents is in part due to training, career development and promotion of all employees.
The number of reportable lost time incidents has also increased: over half of these The Group remains supportive of the employment and reported incidents were less than five days absence from the advancement of disabled persons.
Owing to the nature of the Groups operations, the by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in most common types of injury relate to minor cuts, slips trips or mind the respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicants manual handling injuries.
If an employee is, or becomes disabled during their period of employment, the Group will, if necessary and to the All injuries are fully investigated and corrective actions and extent possible, adapt the work environment to enable the preventative measures put in place to ensure that the incident employee to continue in their current position or retrain does not reoccur and future risks are mitigated.
the employee for duties suited to their abilities following disablement.
At 30 September 2016, the Group employed five Health & Safety forms part of the induction process for new disabled employees.
employees and where relevant, more specialist training is provided for specific functions.
The Group has good coverage Employment policies throughout the Group have been of employees who have formal Health & Safety training and or established to comply with relevant local legislation and codes qualifications and this has continued to increase during 2016. of practice relating to employment, Health & Safety and equal opportunities.
The Group provides good quality working environments and facilities for employees and training and development appropriate to each of their roles.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 35 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Human rights Business ethics The Groups activities are substantially carried out in developed The Group recognises its obligations towards the parties with countries that have strong legislation governing human rights.
whom the Group has business dealings including customers, The Group complies fully with appropriate legislation in the shareholders, employers, suppliers and advisors.
countries in which it operates.
In general, the interactions with these parties are managed at a Environmental local level by senior management and the Group expects a high The Group comprises sales and marketing focused businesses standard of expertise and business principles to be maintained which essentially receive products from suppliers and despatch in such dealings.
The Groups businesses do not operate delivery fleets: they use third-party carriers to deliver their The Groups policy towards suppliers is that each operating products to customers and to provide much of their packaging business is responsible for negotiating the terms and conditions requirements.
The Groups ability to control the environmental under which they trade with their suppliers.
The Group does not impact of its logistics partners is therefore limited.
The primary operate a formal code that it follows with regard to payments impact on the environment, which is entirely in the Groups to suppliers.
Group companies agree payment terms with their control, is consumption of the normal business energy sources suppliers when they enter into binding purchasing contracts for such as heating and power, which the Group aims to minimise the supply of goods or services.
Suppliers are, in that way, made through compliance with relevant environmental legislation.
Group companies seek to abide by these payment terms when they are satisfied that the supplier has The Group is committed to identifying and assessing provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed environmental risks, such as packaging waste, arising from its terms and conditions.
Waste management initiatives are encouraged and supported by the Group and materials are recycled where practical.
Community The Group believes that good community relations are important Local management are committed to good environmental to the long term development and sustainability of the operating management practices throughout our operations.
The Group considers the environmental and social Managing Directors have responsibility for environmental impacts of conducting business on the community and this performance of their operating businesses and each subsidiary forms part of the business decision making process.
is required to implement initiatives to meet their responsibilities.
A selection of community and charitable activities from the Each facility participates in recycling paper, plastic, cardboard, year include: and wood from pallets and continues to focus on minimising energy consumption through the efficient use of heating and In North America lighting.
In addition, a number of the businesses now use fully Somagen Diagnostics supported the Canadian Blood recycled and biodegradable filler materials for packaging.
Services in their Partners for Life programme and supports anacademic award in Alberta, Canada for Biomedical Greenhouse gas emissions Engineering Technology.
UK listed companies are required to report their global levels of Various charitable events at Hercules US including support Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions in their Annual Report & to local charities such as United Way, Clothes To Kids, The Accounts.
This requirement is for disclosure of Scope 1 and 2 only Haven and Paul B. Stephens Exceptional School for Disabled direct emissions, e. g. heating, cooling, transport fuel and indirect Children.
emissions, e. g. from purchased electricity and only to the extent J Royal provided support for the National Pancreatic Cancer that such emissions are the responsibility of the Company.
Foundation and the Save the Children Federation.
The Group has considered the six main GHGs and report In Europe and Australia emissions in tonnes of CO equivalent CO e for Scope 1 direct Kubo Group sponsored an athlete to enable them to compete 2 2 and Scope 2 indirect emissions.
These emissions are calculated in the Special Olympics.
following the GHG Protocol and UK Government Environmental a1-CBISS took part in the Three Peaks Challenge and the Reporting Guidelines.
The Group has used DEFRA UK GHG Anglesey Half Marathon to support Claires House Conversion Factors, US Environmental Protection Agency Childrens Hospice.
Emission Factors and International Energy Agency Factors.
WCIS in Australia took part in a sponsored walk to raise money for Breast Cancer Research.
As a distributor with no owned logistics or freight, the Groups DSL in Australia built Billy Carts for the Children First primary direct energy usage and related CO emissions arise Foundation which provides support and funding for children 2 from the Groups facilities.
Where possible the Group has in developing countries for Healthcare services.
reported billed data which represents ca.
80% of the Groups Big Green Surgical supported the Bangla Smile Project by global emissions.
For the remaining entities the Group has used providing sterile disposable surgical instruments to help an estimation using sales data and local conversion factors.
FPE Seals supported Downs syndrome research by entering An intensity ratio of CO e per 1m revenue has been selected, a team into the Great North Run and supported a breast 2 which will allow a comparison of performance over time and cancer charity.
with other similar types of business.
Hawco Group supported a London to Paris cycle ride for Tonnes of CO e 2 Pancreatic Cancer UK and the Little Princess Trust which Source of emissions 2016 2015 provides wigs for children with cancer.
Direct emissions Natural gas 714 824 The Group also contributes to local worthwhile causes and Scope 1 Owned transport 100 94 charities and in 2016 the Group made donations to charitable Indirect emissions organisations of 44,958 2015: 35,504.
No political donations Scope 2 Electricity 2,732 2,226 were made.
Gross emissions 3,547 3,144 Tonnes CO e per 2 1m revenue 9.3 9.4 For more information, please visit: www.
