STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility report In 2013, we began to develop a corporate social responsibility CSR Community values have always been strategy by analysing our current business practices and devising a plan for the years to come.
We have a successful business, built on a simple at our heart.
There is more to being a business model deliver hot, freshly made pizza to our customers as responsible business than our charitable quickly as is safely possible.
We have a responsibility to uphold the solid reputation our business funding, namely the quality of our food, hasformed since we arrived in the UK in 1985.
To ensure we build a the impact we have on the environment sustainable business for the future, we have developed a responsible delivery plan, our CSR strategy.
and how we treat our employees.
We also recently created an ingredients bible listing all additives included FOOD in our products to help customers understand why they are present.
We are proud to state we continue not to use artificial colours or flavourings We are proud of the food we serve.
Every Dominos in any of our pizzas or side orders and removed trans fats several years pizza is bursting with great quality ingredients like ago.
We also offer a gluten-free pizza base, which is becoming increasingly hand-stretched fresh dough, Welsh mozzarella and popular with our customers.
Thats why our pizzas can Product sourcing and animal welfare transform any occasion, from a relaxing evening The origin and quality of the food we offer our customers is paramount.
at home to a big family party.
We have developed long-term relationships with our suppliers, many ofwhom have been in place for more than a decade.
We also take great pride in ensuring the quality of our products and continually assess each Healthy eating of our suppliers.
As customers tastes change, choice is becoming increasingly important.
At Dominos, we are passionate about innovation, so we are constantly The welfare of animals is important to us.
We work closely with our suppliers looking for ways to improve our food.
to ensure they are able to exhibit normal behaviour patterns and are properly supervised.
All our animals are stunned prior to slaughter.
We follow the ongoing public debate on healthy eating closely.
Thisyear, we set up a dedicated internal steering group focused In 2016, we began a programme of annual audits for all our meat suppliers, onensuring we are making progressive changes to our food ahead including farm visits, to ensure compliance with welfare standards, including ofevolving customer expectations.
We continue to take steps to improve standards and are committed to providing more information so all our stakeholders We want our customers to be in charge.
They are able to choose the are aware of the measures we are taking in this important area.
toppings, the crust, the type of cheese and, most importantly, the number of slices they eat.
We generally recommend about three slices per person.
Objectives for 2017 We also continue to offer Delight Cheese with a third less fat than standard o Further reduce the salt and sugar content of our products mozzarella, and in 2016, we launched our new Italiano artisan range tomeet2017 targets.
o Continue to reformulate products, helping to further improve We are proud to be one of the few pizza chains to offer a reduced fat ourhealth and quality credentials.
Since the beginning of 2012, we have removed over 40tonnes of salt from our pizzas and reduced fat content in ingredients o Publish an animal welfare policy for suppliers, which includes such as pepperoni and beef.
In August 2016, the government published its Childhood Obesity Strategy, which outlined requirements to reduce sugar across a range of product categories in the UK.
We are reformulating our desserts to meet the ENvIRONMENT required 5% reduction in sugar by September 2017.
Achievements in 2016 We continue to work with our suppliers to reduce the amount of salt in o 4.2% rate reduction in electricity consumption at our Milton Keynes ourproducts.
We are committed to meeting the Food Standards Agency Supply Chain Centre.
salt targets for 2017 on individual ingredients, as well as achieving our o 94.1% of waste was either recycled or recovered across our own pledge as part of the Department of Healths Responsibility Deal SupplyChain network.
o LED lighting upgrades at our Penrith and Kingston sites.
Nutrition o Double-decker trailers introduced on trunking routes to reduce We know it is possible to include pizza in a balanced diet, andwe are CO emissions.
2 committed to providing transparent nutritional information toenable our customers to make informed decisions.
Investment in energy efficiency To ensure this transparency, we provide calorie information on During 2016 we have made the following investments to improve ourwebsite and via our app.
We publish detailed nutritional profiles for theenergy efficiency of our Supply Chain Centres: more than 1,000 combinations of regular pizzas and those made with o We have installed new air compressors at our main Supply Chain our Delight Cheese.
In 2016, we also developed a planner on our corporate Centre in Milton Keynes, which are delivering a 5% reduction in website which shows customers how our pizzas can fit into a nutritionally energy consumption at this site.
26 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS o We have replaced fluorescent lighting with energy-efficient LED the World Resources Institutes Greenhouse Gas Protocol and Defras lighting at our Penrith and Kingston sites.
Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance June 2013 and ISO 14064 part 1. o As part of a medium-term programme, electric motors at the end ofserviceable life have been replaced by IE4 category motors.
We have adopted a financial control approach to define our organisational boundary: as a result, we report GHG emissions from all three markets Striving for zero waste to landfill considered as part of the Groups current financial consolidation: the We continue to strive towards achieving zero waste to landfill.
In 2016, UnitedKingdom, the Republic of Ireland and Switzerland.
Accountability for the proportion of our waste that was either recycled or recovered increased our overall environmental performance rests with our Executive Committee.
Our franchisees emissions are currently excluded from our reporting onthe basis that we dont have sufficiently accurate information to report Reduction in delivery mileage on their impacts.
Where data was incomplete i. e. less than 12 months Working in conjunction with our third-party logistics providers we of data were available GHG emissions were extrapolated from the available havereduced our delivery mileage by 52,800 miles in 2016, through information and references to the accounting and calculation methodologies theimplementation of double-decker trailers.
Increased utilisation for any assumptions, estimations and recalculations performed have ofdouble-decker trailers in 2017 will deliver an additional reduction been documented.
For more insight into our overall environmental performance Intensity ratio pleaseaccess the Environment page on our corporate website We continue to track GHG emissions over time against our dough production corporate.
levels and we are becoming increasingly resource efficient: our intensity Objectives for 2017 ratio for scope 1 and 2 for this reporting year is 0.33 tCO e tonne of dough 2 produced compared to our baseline figure of 0.42 tCO e tonne of dough o To maintain accreditation to ISO 50001.
This has decreased by 22% putting us in a good position to o To introduce double-decker trailers supplying the Livingston meet our 25% relative reduction target by 2018.
These indicators have Scotland depot.
been adjusted to reflect the sale of our German stores.
o To continue our policy of reducing fuel consumption relative Methodology totonnage delivered.
Dominos Pizza Group reports on all emissions sources stipulated under o To reduce our maximum daily demand on water consent the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports Regulations byatleast10%.
The methodology used to compile this data is in accordance with the requirements of the following standards: o To continue to focus on electricity reduction associated with lighting, refrigeration and motor replacement.
Greenhouse gas emissions 1 Our reporting period for GHG emissions is 1 October to 30 September and the 2015 2016 GHG emissions inventory marks our fourth year of GHG emissions reporting.
Our material GHG emissions from business activities in this period amount to 11,889 tonnes tCO e, consisting of: 2 2 Tonnes of CO e 2 baseline Tonnes of CO e Tonnes of CO e Percentage change 2 2 3 3 Emissions source 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 from baseline Scope 1: CO e from the combustion of fuel and the operation Natural gas 586 526 529 -10% 2 ofany facilities Kerosene 99 41 46 -54% Refrigerant 189 302 0 -100% 4 Owned vehicles 6,507 6,340 6,997 7.5% Scope 2: CO e from the purchase of electricity, heat, Purchased 2 steamorcooling by the Company for its own use electricity 4,206 4,533 4,318 3% Total 11,587 11,742 11,889 3% Notes 1 Our financial reporting year is the calendar year: however, we have set our reporting period back by a quarter to facilitate data collection.
2 We report all material GHG emissions, using tonnes of COequivalent tCO e as the unit, to account for all GHGs which are attributable to human activity, 2 2 asdefined in section 92 of the Climate Change Act 2008 a.
The only exception is for GHG emissions from electricity is the ROI and Switzerland where the GHG emissions are reported in CO. 2 3 These figures have been adjusted to reflect the sale of our German operations.
4 Includes fuel consumed petrol, diesel and red diesel by our supply chain delivery fleet, our company cars and our corporate store delivery fleet.
A closer look at the numbers Despite a 32% increase in production since the baseline year, our GHG emissions have remained relatively unchanged, demonstrating that our business is becoming more efficient: o Owned vehicles, which accounts for our company-owned cars and the fleet of trucks delivering dough to the stores, has increased by only 7.5%.
We continue to improve loading and routing and to put in place measures to ensure efficient driving.
o Electricity emissions have increased by 3% due to increased production activity.
Since 2015 we have reviewed our electricity usage on a daily basis and have been introducing energy-efficiency technology upgrades across the sites to help us reduce our consumption.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 27 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility report continued EMPLOYEES GENDER DIvERSITY Achievements for 2016 Female Male o Celebrated success with our colleagues through regular pizza lunches, recognition vouchers, a summer family day and a Christmas party.
DIRECTORS OF GROUP SUBSIDIARIES SWITZERLAND AND UK AND IRELAND o We are pleased to have taken part in the UK Corporate Games with colleagues entering football and dragon boat teams.
2016 28% 72% o Launched a recruitment campaign and interview and induction tools 5 of 18 13 of 18 toLondon stores to support recruitment for our peak period.
o Built an in-house recruitment function and launched a colleague 2015 25% 75% recommend a friend programme.
5 of 20 15 of 20 o Launched The Box, our colleague recognition and reward portal toenhance our total reward package.
SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM SWITZERLAND AND UK AND IRELAND o Launched our people plan focused on core pillars to support future growth, talent attraction and development, reward and recognition, 2016 32% 68% culture and engagement and HR service delivery.
12 of 37 25 of 37 In last years Annual Report and Accounts, we set ourselves a numberofgoals and we have taken great strides in the year 2015 35% 65% towardsachieving these.
12 of 34 22 of 34 Engagement and wellbeing We strive to provide a happy and safe environment for our colleagues and are always seeking to understand what improvements we make ALL GROUP EMPLOYEES SWITZERLAND AND UK AND IRELAND in our colleagues experience at work.
Our Happiness at Work team 2016 19% 81% helps us keep focused on work-life balance initiatives and provide opportunities for colleagues to connect and socialise through team 193 of 999 806 of 999 days, our family summer barbecue and our Christmas party.
2015 19% 81% We provide all colleagues who work with us with an excellent benefits package which includes benefits to help them get healthier and look 168 of 894 726 of 894 after their wellbeing through schemes such as PruHealth Vitality.
Participation continues to increase as our colleagues focus on their health and wellbeing and track their steps, utilise discounted rates Objectives for 2017 atgyms and get rewarded for healthy shopping habits.
o Continue to embed the employee value proposition across our stores, To understand true levels of engagement, in 2017 we will launch a new Head Office and supply chain.
engagement survey to measure our team member satisfaction.
We will ask o Launch recruitment and onboarding tools to all stores to enhance our colleagues to answer questions that tell us their level offunctional theexperience of joining Dominos.
and emotional loyalty to our brand.
Action planning in our teams will be the key to its success so we can ensure a great place to work and make o Expand our in-house recruitment function to improve the improvements where our team tells us things could be better.
Performance and development o Build our internal learning and development offer and enhance our succession planning processes in Head Office and our supply chain.
We launched a high performance programme to some members ofourleadership team to give them tools so they can thrive, be at o Enable a high-performing culture through the launch of the Dominos theirbest and help their teams be the best they can be.
In 2017 Way of managing performance and developing our core skills.
wewillembed the principles of a high performance culture and all o Measure our team member satisfaction to ensure we are a great theaspects that make a high-performing team in the launch of the place to work.
Dominos Way of managing performance and developing our core skills.
This will be launched to all members of the senior leadership team o Focus on our colleagues health and wellbeing and promote the inHead Office and our supply chain.
benefits they receive by working for Dominos.
Attracting talent and succession planning This year we have progressed on our journey to build an in-house recruitment function helping us own more of the narrative directly withnew colleagues at this critical stage of the colleague lifecycle.
Thisjourney will continue in 2017 as we expand our talent attraction team and launch further employer brand tools which will support our line managers to recruit to retain.
In 2017, we will introduce an internal talent development role to focus on learning and development across our Head Office and supply chain functions showing our commitment to ensuring we are best placed to find, keep and develop the best talent.
28 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Pennies receives 7.5% of all donations as a contribution to its charitable COMMUNITY objectives and to drive the movement for the benefit of the charitable Achievements in 2016 sector as a whole.
Raised over 1.1m for charity: The full 92.5% of donations in Great Britain went to our 2016 beneficiary, Teenage Cancer Trust.
In Northern Ireland, the Northern Ireland Childrens o over 963,130 for Teenage Cancer Trust: Hospice also received the full 92.5%, and in the Republic of Ireland, our o over 15,600 for Barretstown: new charity partner Barretstown also began receiving 92.5% of customers donations from launch in September 2016. o over 51,700 for the Northern Ireland Childrens Hospice: Teenage Cancer Trust: Over 1m raised o over 56,300 for Pennies: and andwerestillgoing!
o over 14,500 for Special Olympics Great Britain the partnership Teenage Cancer Trust was appointed as our charity partner of choice withSpecial Olympics Great Britain came to an end in June 2016. inEngland, Scotland and Wales in the Summer of 2015, with a goal Pennies ofraising 1m over a two-year period.
To date, we have already raised approximately 1.3m, which equates to 45,000 hours of expert care We have a long-running partnership with the charity Pennies.
Its digital from a specialist nurse for a young person with cancer.
The overwhelming charity box has enabled customers using our website and apps to round engagement of our customers, franchisees, store teams and office colleagues up their orders to the nearest pound.
2016 was by far the most successful meant that we hit and exceeded our goal after just 14 months.
year to date and, on behalf of the charities, we would like to pass on a big thank you to our customers who have embraced Pennies in their millions.
Throughout 2016, Dominos team members and franchisees took part in various fundraising challenges and customer-facing activities and o The average weekly donation total was 14,458 in 2016. provided pizza for Unit Pizza Nights.
Dominos was also a sponsor o Dominos customers have raised over 2.8m since 2010.
In 2016 alone, atTeenage Cancer Trusts flagship Royal Albert Hall event in March.
they raised over 750,000 through almost 4 million micro-donations.
Right now, for every young person Teenage Cancer Trust reaches, o Boosted fundraising by launching Pennies in the Republic of Ireland theres another they cant.
To reach every young person who needs for Barretstown in September 2016. them, Teenage Cancer Trust is expanding its team of expert nurses towork in local hospitals and patients homes so that young people We are proud to have been the landmark partner for Pennies and canreceive the expert treatment they need, no matter where they live.
tohave seen this trend of online donations grow considerably since They need to raise 20m a year by 2020 to make this happen, and itbegan in 2010.
In September 2016, we heralded another first Dominos is proud be part of helping them get there.
forPennies, becoming the first brand to launch the digital charity boxinthe Republic of Ireland.
We have now committed to raising 2m to support Teenage Cancer Trust with their 2020 goal.
Young people and their families remain at the heart of our business, so a partnership with a charity that supports this age group and their families through one of the most difficult times in their lives continues to make sense to us.
Our social impact: o To date, Dominos has raised over 1,360,000 for Teenage Cancer Trust.
In 2016 alone, the fundraising total equated to 32,105 hours ofexpert care from a specialist nurse for a young person with cancer.
o Since our partnership began in 2009, Dominos has raised over 103,000 for the Northern Ireland Childrens Hospice.
The 2016 fundraising total equates to 1,724 nursing hours.
o Since our partnership began in 2004, Dominos has raised over 200,000 for Barretstown.
The 2016 fundraising total made it possible for seven children living with a serious illness to attend aseven-day summer camp to take part in a life-changing programme oftherapeutic recreation.
The 2016 donation has also maintained thethree automated external defibrillators in the Med Shed.
Charity objectives for 2017 o Evolve the charity programme in line with fresh business priorities.
o Increase overall giving, aided by the introduction of Pennies into the ROI.
o Continue to galvanise fundraising with our customers, franchisees, We consider our place to store teams and office colleagues.
be at the heart of the local community and support a number ofcharities working nationally and locally.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 29
