STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Drax has a wide and diverse group of HOW WE COMMUNICATE At the heart of our new digital strategy is stakeholders.
These include our shareholders, We strive to use the most appropriate the new website for the whole Group, which the people who work for us, our customers, communications channels to engage all our launched on 6 October 2016.
Together with the companies who supply us, the stakeholders and ensure that everyone can a much greater focus on social media and communities inwhich we work, Government, access all the information they need about on creating content about Draxs businesses non-Governmental organisations, regulators, our policies, practices and strategic direction.
and the world of energy in general, this opinion-formers and the media.
has led to dramatically higher levels of As the world moves increasingly online, in engagement by stakeholder audiences.
We believe it is absolutely vital to 2016 we have managed a substantial increase communicate effectively with all our in the frequency and volume of our digital stakeholders.
It is our aim to be transparent communications, because this is the most and open in everything we do.
efficient way to stay in touch, open up a dialogue and to maintain communication with many of our stakeholders.
DRAXS DIGITAL UNIVERSE How digital platforms are enabling Drax 1.2M 12,000 to engage more stakeholders from more Tweets Reads audiences, more efficiently.
In the three months to Our Twitter activity drove mid-November 2016, our more than 12,000 reads tweets appeared in 1.2 million ofDrax content on our Twitter user feeds.
30,000 108% Our content was clicked on Visitors The time visitors spent 3,500 times during this period.
Over 30,000 people visited looking at the Investors 412% the new Drax website section of the new website We took part in 174 1 between its 6 October isup 108%.
2 conversations, received 1,000 4,343 Twitter users follow @ launch and the end of 1 Based on a comparison of the time likes and were retweeted DraxNews up from 849 theyear.
since 1 January an increase 2015 to6 October to 14 December 2016 the new website launched of 412%.
on 6 October 2 as of 14 December 2016 1,000 PROMINENT NEW drax.
com Conversations FOLLOWERS Weve had over 1,000 conversations with individuals Leading new Twitter followers and other organisations on over recent months include: Twitter this year.
Iain Wright MP, Chair of the House of Commons Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee, Public Health and Innovation Minister Nicola Blackwood MP, The Joseph Rowntree Foundation and many journalists.
46 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT electricinsights.
co. uk 100,000 28% 3 Views Drax has 5,567 followers Drax content regularly appears in on LinkedIn up 28% more than 100,000 LinkedIn since 1 January when we users feeds each month.
3 as of 14 December 2016 Between 1,0002,000 of those people either click, like, comment or share it.
co. uk 1,000 4,200 Readers Visitors 1,000 people have visited our 4,200 people have visited Drax Impact website since its Electric Insights, a Drax September launch this uses collaboration with researchers data visualisations and case at Imperial College London, studies to explore our supply helping to educate chain and its 1.24 billion stakeholders about the impact to the UKeconomy.
different technologies generating electricity in Great Britain, their respective roles and their impact.
47 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CONTINUED BUSINESS CONDUCT to our suppliers cash flow, particularly for energy has its rightful place at the heart We subscribe to and maintain the highest of the smaller businesses among them.
of the Northern Powerhouse and the ethical standards.
We always strive to carry Governments wider industrial strategy, out our business honestly, with integrity and We understand that sustainability policy must Drax was delighted to join the Northern according to the spirit as well as the letter focus on social, economic and environmental Powerhouse Partnership and to pledge its of all applicable laws and regulations.
factors as well as price, service and quality.
support for the Prime Ministers Northern We have adopted these broader principles Powerhouse Partnership Programme.
Furthermore, we have created a culture within throughout our procurement practices.
the Group to make it clear that bribery and Energy UK corruption are completely unacceptable.
We INVESTOR RELATIONS Drax continues to play an active role in Energy protect fundamental human rights by never Drax sees timely and accurate communication UK, the trade body for the UKs electricity tolerating the use of underage workers or with shareholders as central to our industry.
As a member of the Energy UK board any type of forced labour.
We share results, prospects and and several working committees, Drax is well our suppliers have the smallest possible our latest thinking with investors through a positioned to take a leading role on the key impact on the places and the communities wide range of channels.
These include our generation and retail challenges facing the in which they work.
We will bar any supplier Annual General Meeting, our Preliminary industry as it undergoes a transformation to that breaches these standards or is directly or and Interim results announcement, our meet the challenges of a low carbon future.
In indirectly complicit in such a breach from any Annual report and accounts and Trading the past year Drax has worked with Energy UK further connection with Draxs supply chain.
These documents can all be on important issues including the relationship found online at www.
between heat and electricity policy, In 2016, the Group developed Doing the right transmission network charging reform, how thing, a publicly available document that We ensure that any important issues that best to deliver cost-effective decarbonisation sets out the principles underpinning our affect our trading and the growth and and enhancing existing market mechanisms compliance culture.
Employees are required direction of Drax Group are shared in a timely that ensure security of supply.
to conduct their business in accordance way through the appropriate regulatory with these principles, in addition to the information service, and through our website Biomass UK the Renewable Energy policies and procedures that comprise and social media as soon as is practicable.
Associations biomass power sector group our wider compliance framework.
A consistent theme emerging from our We often follow announcements with more stakeholder engagement has been the need We encourage any employee to speak out in detail for our investors through conference to ensure the UK biomass sector is properly complete confidence through our policy on calls or presentations.
We hold regular represented and that the whole biomass power whistleblowing.
This gives them information meetings with major institutional shareholders sector speaks with a unified voice to highlight about how to disclose any information or along with other potential investors, to help not only how it ensures the biomass used concerns they may have, in good faith that them understand our communications and to in power generation is sustainable but also relate to safety, fraud or other illegal or enable the Board to gather valuable feedback.
that our messages of the benefits of biomass unethical conduct.
generation are more widely understood.
We use the investor section of our website In particular, few people understand the Our tax strategy reflects our understanding to enable private investors to gain an true value of the flexible, reliable and low of the fact that public policy on taxation accessible and transparent understanding carbon power that sustainable wood pellets and the entire tax environment is changing.
of the business and its strategic direction.
Drax was instrumental In 2016 we paid taxes of more than 130 in the reinvigoration and rebranding of the million.
These included taxes on our profits, PUBLIC AFFAIRS Biomass Power Sector Group which Drax taxes on our workforce, taxes levied for It is vital to our business that we develop now chairs and helps support financially.
burning fossil fuels as well as environmental and maintain good relationships with taxes.
individuals from public life, whether they European Trade Associations: EURELECTRIC be elected representatives, appointed and AEBIOM the European Biomass In 2017 we will ensure compliance in full with officials or key opinion formers.
Association the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act The European Commission proposed new and a statement will be published on our In 2016, following consultation with our sustainability criteria for sold biomass website as required.
We will also comply in stakeholders, we played a leading role as part of its revision of the Renewable full with the new requirements on reporting in a number of initiatives, including: Energy Directive in December 2016.
Drax pay by gender when these are introduced.
is well known for having some of the most Northern Powerhouse robust biomass sustainability criteria in the SUPPLY CHAIN We met with several of our regional world and strongly backs the EUs plans Non-fuel procurement stakeholders, including policy makers for robust and pragmatic sustainability We strive to find working partners and and members of our supply chain in the criteria for solid biomass across the EU.
suppliers from a diverse range of backgrounds.
North of England, who said they would As such, Drax continues to fully engage Whenever we can we aim to partner with like to see Drax take on a more prominent with the Commission and the other EU small and medium-sized organisations leadership position on the development of Institutions as they draw up the policy.
We in the communities where we work.
Drax do so bilaterally and also through the trade also believes the generation of renewable associations which represent the power We are signed up to the Prompt Payment energy, particularly offshore wind and and biomass sectors in Brussels.
Drax is now Code and are completely committed to paying biomass generation, is one of the regions key represented on the Board of AEBIOM and our suppliers on time.
We fully understand strengths which the Northern Powerhouse chairs EURELECTRICs taskforce on biomass.
the vital importance of prompt payment should promote.
To help ensure renewable 48 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT While we are keenly interested in the field of public affairs, we have no interest in party politics.
This is why we made no political donations anywhere during 2016 2015: nil.
We are proud to state that we will continue to have contact with people who are active in politics only in order to promote the Groups legitimate business interests.
What counts as political expenditure within the EU encompasses a very wide range of activities, many of which may not be considered as political in a normal sense.
In order to avoid breaching EU legislation in any way entirely unknowingly Drax presents a resolution at the Annual General Meeting to seek shareholders approval for expenditure in this area of 100,000 by the Company and its subsidiaries.
Drax Biomass Inc. Our community engagement reaches wider VISITORS TO DRAX Drax Biomass Inc. regularly meets with audiences through seasonal events held Drax Power Station welcomed over 16,000 elected officials and policymakers at the at our Skylark Nature Reserve.
This year people in 2016, an increase of 19% on federal state and local levels to advise on the business has also focused on future 2015s figures.
This increase is thanks to business plans, industry developments employability of young people through our a more streamlined booking system and and policy matters of importance to the STEM challenge, which engages local school more tailored tours, designed to offer business and our suppliers and customers.
children ages 11 to 18 in a competition to visitors the particular areasof interest In addition, Drax Biomass maintains an develop an idea to improve something in they want, especially the curriculumactive presence in state and local business their communities.
The challenge requires based tours for schools andcolleges.
associations to raise the biomass industrys them to apply their science and engineering profile within the broader business know-how to come up with an inventive In addition to this, we are now welcoming community, and to advance measures that solution, as well as mathematics skills to groups from a more diverse background.
budget and plan its implementation.
Withimproved use of social media, we are attracting community groups such as Rotary, Drax Biomass also engages with the broader Drax Biomass Inc. conducts local and WI, U3A and special interest groups such as forestry sector through memberships in regional outreach through our participation train enthusiasts and engineering specialists.
various state forestry associations, including in  certification those in Louisiana, Mississippi, Arkansas and programmes.
For example, in early 2016, Tours of the power station have been updated Georgia.
These associations allow us to work Drax Biomass completed an extensive to tell the story of sustainable wood pellets, alongside landowners, foresters, state officials stakeholder consultation with the local the upgrade to biomass power, the logistics and other forest product manufacturers on communities surrounding our facilities as part involved in transporting and storing the issues related to conservation, development of our successful bid to achieve certification pellets, as well as their treatment and use and responsible use of forestland.
under the Sustainable Biomass Program.
of biomass pellets to produce electricity.
We contacted over 200 individuals and COMMUNITY RELATIONS organisations representing environmental Drax Power Station is now also open on In the course of 2016, the Group donated a interests, landowners, Government, weekends in order to allow family access total of 125,233 to a range of charitable and academia and other stakeholders.
We to the site, enabling people to visit who non-charitable causes in the community.
provided them with an overview of our previously hadnt been able to do so and Charitable donations totalled 114,791. core principles and sourcing practices, and create a learning environment for the solicited recommendations to strengthen whole family and an exciting experience.
Drax Power Station is a major employer in our risk management framework.
We also play a positive role Drax now has the use of two, specially in the local community, and support various In liaising with its local community, Haven designed, electric buses that can take visitors initiatives at a local and regional level.
We do employees have been involved in a number around the site, quickly and efficiently, this by giving funding to charities and events of community initiatives throughout with zero emissions on site, adding to the by developing and running campaigns in 2016, including supporting a local charity renewable credentials that we talk to the the educational environmental fields.
Our transforming woodlands into a tranquil visitors about.
These have proven an excellent nominated charity for 2016 was Selby Hands setting for terminally ill people and children way of engaging with the visitors as they of Hope, to whom we donated a total of with severe learning difficulties: and allow conversations to take place and the 20,337.
We also meet regularly with local providing advice at local school recruitment visitors to get closer to the plant itself, so they officials to ensure we listen to any concerns workshops.
Various monthly events can experience more of the wow factor.
they may have and to keep them up to date organised by employees meant that Havens on recent developments and future plans.
charity of the year The Childrens Ward at the Ipswich Hospital was able to benefit from donations in excess of 8,000.
49 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
