SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW SUSTAINABLE BIOMASS IS AT THE HEART OF OURSMART SOLUTIONS DRAXS SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Drax Group only ever uses biomass that is sustainably produced and legally sourced.
We have set ourselves clear requirements in our sustainability policy.
In addition weadhere to the UK Governments criteria for sustainable biomass.
Our dedicated sustainability team reports to the Group Head of Sustainability and they ensure ourbiomass meets all these requirements.
By achieving this, Renewable Obligation Certificates ROCs can be claimed for the electricity we generate from compressed wood pellets instead of coal.
WHAT ARE THE UK GOVERNMENTS SUSTAINABILITY LEGISLATION CRITERIA?
OUR SUSTAINABILITY POLICY Drax claims ROCs for electricity generated by biomass.
To do so we must show that all the biomass we consume meets both the The biomass we use to generate electricity isat sustainability and Greenhouse Gas GHG the heart of our business.
Because this must be emissions savings criteria set out by the UK Government.
In summary form, these require sustainable, we always strive to make sure that that management of the forest from which allofthe pellets we use comply with our policy: the biomass was harvested must ensure: harm to ecosystems is minimised: productivity of the forest area ismaintained: Significantly reduce GHG Contribute to local bio-diversity is maintained and protected: emissions compared to prosperity in the area of the health and vitality of the ecosystem coal-fired generation.
supply chain management ismaintained: and biomass production.
customary and legal rights, including health and safety standards, are observed.
WHAT ARE WE DOING TO MAKE SURE OUR Not endanger food supply Contribute to the social BIOMASS IS SUSTAINABLE?
or communities where the wellbeing of employees and Drax is working to ensure the delivery of use of biomass is essential the local population in the sustainability is improved along the entire forsubsistence for biomass producing areas.
length of our supply chain.
We work to example heat, medicines improve forestry practices in the places and building materials.
from which we source the raw materials for our wood pellets and to reduce the Not adversely affect No net release of carbon impact of our sourcing right up to the protected or vulnerable from the vegetation and soil moment they are fed into our generating biodiversity and, where of either forests or units.
This responsibility covers three key possible, give preference to agricultural land.
areas: environmental, social and economic.
biomass production that This requires us to develop good working strengthens biodiversity.
relationships with all the partner organisations with whom we work so that we can identify and develop solutions to any issues that Deploy good practices arise in the process, and that we can help toprotect and or improve our partners improve the way they work.
soil, water both ground and surface and air quality.
36 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW DO WE ENSURE THE SUSTAINABILITY OF BIOMASS FROM THIRD-PARTY OUR PRINCIPLES SUPPLIERS?
Our contract with any proposed biomass supplier stipulates that they must make a sustainability declaration that provides key information about: the areas from which their We never work in countries We only take wood from 01 04 raw materials come: forest management that lack properregulation.
working forests that grow practices in those areas: and the GHG back and stay as forests.
characteristics of their pellet manufacturing plant and their biomass supplychain.
We never cause deforestation We require all our suppliers 02 05 or forestdecline.
to pass tough screening and We then require the proposed supplier sustainability audits, conducted to undergo an audit carried out by an byindependent auditors.
independent third party on the ground.
This involves checking information We never source from areas provided in their declaration and 03 that are officially protected regional analysis against both our own or where our activities harm Sustainability Policy and the regulatory endangeredspecies.
criteria set out by the UK Government.
This rigorous process demands that the independent auditor investigates the forest management practices in the areas from Low-priority issues highlight areas where Sustainable logging cycles planning which the supplier sources their raw material.
our independent auditors believesuppliers harvesting and replanting operations have room to improve theirpractices, according to the age and growth rate of the For a new supply it is only when this though all requirements arebeing met.
forest can ensure that a regular supply process has been completed, and we can of wood is available now and in the future.
be sure that the wood pellets the proposed Twelve new pellet mills and eight existing Harvesting programmes can be managed for supplier provides will satisfy all our policy suppliers were audited through this long-term benefit and sustainable supply.
and regulatory standards, that they can independent process in 2016.
The auditors be approved as a supplier to Drax.
noted 1 high-priority issue, 23 medium-priority Environmental benefits: By practising issues and 40 improvement opportunities.
SFM, habitat diversity is preserved Then, every year, all approved suppliers are On discovery of the high-priority issue, we and sensitive sites protected.
required to submit up-to-date information and did not contract with the supplier.
Of the 23 data for review in order to demonstrate the medium-priority issues, 14 are complete, four Well-managed forests also help to protect continued sustainability of their operations.
are in progress and five are yet to be actioned.
and conserve water sources and soil Independent auditing then continues as part quality, reduce the risk of damage from of a regular cycle of supervision usually once WHY SUSTAINABLE FOREST fire, pest or disease and increase the rate every three years but more often if required.
MANAGEMENT MATTERS of carbon sequestration and storage.
In Sustainable forest management SFM the US South, the growing stock volume Sustainability can also be demonstrated requires environmentally appropriate, of timber total amount of carbon of the through forest management certification.
socially beneficial, and economically forest has more than doubled in the last This shows that responsible forestry is viable management of forests for 60 years as a result of improved forest being practised in the forests where the present and futuregenerations.
management practices, whilst the total area raw materials are sourced.
To achieve forest of forest has remained largely the same.
management certification the forest and Drax sources biomass only from management practices must be audited and productive working forests.
Sustainable Social: SFM also provides greater social endorsed by independent third parties.
management of working forests benefits often offering a greater degree provides a wide range of benefits.
of public access with the provision of WHAT DOES THE SUPPLIER AUDITINVOLVE?
nature trails, mountain bike routes, picnic Draxs sustainability audit requires the Economic benefits: Increased productivity areas and wildlife observation areas.
supplier pass no fewer than 107 detailed and quality due to better management Actively managing a forest provides checks along the whole length of their supply practices, improving planting material benefits to the local economy and chain and pellet manufacturing process.
seedlings, weed control and fertilisation, related industries including increased Negative findings are categorised into three ground preparation and drainage, appropriate local employment.
It also contributes to priorities: high, medium and low.
Highthinning to provide more high-value wood.
the visual quality of the landscape.
priority findings can result in termination of This can increase revenue for the forest our agreement.
Medium-priority findings owner and encourage investment in the result in the supplier being given a set forest resource and ensure that the long-term timescale within which to rectify them.
future of the forest is secured as opposed to conversion to other more lucrative land uses e. g. cotton or urban development.
37 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED 4.6M TONNES of Drax feedstock came from controlled wood sources in 2016 CHAIN OF CUSTODY AND FOREST CERTIFICATION Forest management FM certification is one of a range of methods to confirm, through independent third party audit, that a specific area of forest is being managed in accordance with a particular standard or agreed set of principles and criteria.
Once achieved, FM certification allows the forest owner to readily demonstrate their sustainability credentials and management standards.
In 2016 Draxs suppliers sourced more than 1.5 million tonnes ROUNDWOOD AND of wood fibre from FM certified forests.
BIOMASS PRODUCTION FM certification may be difficult to achieve INNORTH AMERICA forsome type of forest owners.
That is why asecondary level of assessment In 2015 almost 400 million cubic metres of roundwood called Controlled Wood is available all harvested wood for industrial and fuel usage was for wood procurement organisations.
harvested in the US for use in the forest products Thisensures thatwood fibre is NOT: industry for construction, furniture, paper, composite board production and woodfuel.
Of this wood fibre less illegally harvested: than 4% was used to make wood pellets and only 2.4% harvested in violation of traditional and was used for export pellets.
In Canada 156 million cubic human rights: metres was harvested and only 2.6% was used for wood harvested in forests in which High pellet production.
This clearly shows that the wood Conservation Values HCVs would be pellet sector is a very small part of the overall market threatened by management activities forwood products.
HCVs are areas particularly worthy of protection : harvested in forests being converted to North American production of roundwood and pellets 2015 % plantations or non-forest use: 1 3 1 from forests in which genetically modified 3 2 2 trees are planted.
Industrial roundwood In 2016 4.6 million tonnes of Drax feedstock 2.
Other roundwood came from controlled sources.
Wood pellets Once certified, Chain of Custody CoC can beused as a mechanism for tracking wood fibre from the forest to the final product USA Canada and destination.
Each supplier in the chain must have a documented system to be able to identify and trace the wood fibre at each stage.
Drax requires that all of its suppliers achieve CoC certification.
38 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT THE AMOUNT OF CARBON SEQUESTERED FROM A FOREST IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE GROWTH RATE OF THE TREES.
SO THE HIGHER THE RATE OF GROWTH THE MORE NEW CARBON IS SEQUESTERED.
ACTIVE FOREST MANAGEMENT AND BIOMASS PELLET FEEDSTOCKS CARBON STORAGE Our biomass pellets are sourced from North America and Europe.
Drax is required to report The amount of carbon sequestered from all feedstock categories to the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem in accordance a forest is directly related to the growth rate with their guidelines and criteria.
This information can be found at: www.
So the higher the rate of growth the more new carbon is sequestered and COUNTRIES OF ORIGIN AND FEEDSTOCKS OF OUR BIOMASS PELLETS the greater the rate of absorption from The following table shows the types of feedstocks we used in 2016 by weight tonnes and the atmosphere.
Mature trees have a high carbon stock Diseased wood and the amount of stored carbon but a low Sawmill Branches, storm Low grade Agricultural rate of absorption.
Younger trees are much residues tops and bark salvage Thinnings roundwood residues Total more effective at removal of CO from tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes 2 the atmosphere.
Estonia 215,740 46,351 94,073 356,164 Harvesting mature trees from working forests Portugal 32,975 43,438 3,529 33,603 52,385 165,930 when their growth rate has slowed and UK 133,606 133,606 replacing them with young vigorous trees Other EU 37,637 161 6 827 10 38,640 has a much better impact on atmospheric carbon, especially if much of the high-value Total 2,617,811 1,020,517 13,927 1,539,463 1,263,361 136,101 6,591,180 wood harvested is stored in long-term wood products construction, furniture etc.. DEFINITIONS: Thinnings: roundwood from a forest or Biomass is a by-product of this process.
Sawmill residues: wood residue in the form plantation thinning, where the main Produced either in the removal of thinnings, of chip, bark, sawdust, etc.
that is produced objective is to reduce the density of trees in oras the low-grade roundwood left overafter at asawmill.
astand and improve the quality and growth sawlogs have been harvested, or asresidues of the remaining trees.
from harvesting or at the sawmill.
Drax Branches, tops and bark: material produced does not take any wood from primary from harvesting that cannot be used for Low-grade roundwood: stemwood of forest or highly bio-diverse forest areas.
anysize or length that is not suitable for, orcannot access, higher value markets.
Diseased wood and storm salvage: timber Drax biomass country of origin 2016 that is diseased or has been damaged during Agricultural residues: residues from 7 6 a storm.
agricultural production e. g. straw, peanut 1 5 husks, or purpose-grown energy crops 4 1.
Estonia 5% Drax biomass supply chain GHG emissions 5.
Other EU 1% 40 SUPPLY CHAIN GHG EMISSIONS GHG emissions are affected by a wide 30 The Renewables Obligation sets out range of factors including cultivation, the basis on which Drax is required to harvesting and transportation.
For Drax 20 determine and report on the life cycle GHG the majority of our pellets are shipped emissions associated with its supply chain.
to the UK from North America.
10 Every supplier is required to give detailed The impact of shipping emissions is information on what type s of fibre is are 0 Drax Drax Drax determined by both distance and vessel used to make wood pellets along with full EU Canada USA size.
For longer distances e. g. from North details of their sources, the distances and supply supply supply America it is essential to use large-scale vehicle types involved in their production, chain chain chain vessels capable of transporting more the production process itself, data about than 40,000 tonnes of wood pellets each Drax average fuel and energy usage, plus any sea-freight time sometimes up to 60,000 tonnes : data including what type of vessel was used, this significantly reduces the emissions over which route, over what distance.
This per tonne of wood pellets.
Within Europe data is entered into the BEIS formerly DECC shipping distances are much shorter and solid biomass and biogas carbon calculator therefore smaller vessels can be utilised, and used to determine the precise level of 33.9CO EQ MJ 2 which also allows vessels to access small supply chain GHG emissions associated with ports that can reduce inland transportation.
Information 2016 average biomass about these levels is reported to Ofgem.
Supply chain GHG emissions Drax uses specially designed rail wagons to transport the biomass pellets direct from The UK Government has set a limit on the port to power station.
This is dramatically maximum supply chain GHG emissions more carbon efficient than road transport.
permitted in order for biomass to be eligible for support under the RO.
The current limit for CO emissions from life cycle analysis 2 of biomass supplies is 79.2g CO e MJ 2 reducing to 50g CO MJ by 2025.
2 In 2016 the average supply chain GHG emissions from all of Draxs biomass supplies amounted to 33.9g CO e MJ.
The UK 2 Government has provided a benchmark figure for GHG emission from coal which is 250.8g CO e MJ, therefore in 2016 Drax 2 saved around 86% of CO e emissions 2 compared to the coal benchmark.
40 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT THE AMOUNT OF CARBON SEQUESTERED FROM A FOREST IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE GROWTH RATE OF THE TREES.
COAL SOURCING COAL SOURCING BY COUNTRY Life cycle emissions 2016 CO2 EQ MJ As we have upgraded half the power Country Tonnes station to produce electricity from 300 Colombia 1,865,682 wood pellets, clearly our need for coal 255.56 has reduced.
However, it is important US 75,726 250 that we continue to secure reliable coal UK 770,680 200 supply from known sources and from jurisdictions and counterparties that are Total 2,712,087 150 vetted against our various compliance 105.28 100 policies.
We avoid buying generic coals, 79.00 where the origin can be uncertain, either 50 33.9 bilaterally or over trading platforms.
0 Drax BEIS Gas Coal Coal sourcing by indigenous and imports Biomass 201520 average average Coal sourcing is overseen by our Compliance, for the year 2016 target Sustainability and Risk teams and we carry 1 Calculated using Ofgems Solid and Gaseous Biomass out appropriate due diligence around our Carbon Calculator.
Where our checks raise any Source: DUKES 2015 Digest of UK Energy Statistics red-flags we undertake further targeted 1.
UK 28% due diligence and will ultimately engage 2.
Imports 72% with Draxs Ethics and Business Conduct SUSTAINABLE BIOMASS PROGRAM 2 Committee if that is deemed necessary.
The Sustainable Biomass Program SBP is an independent certification scheme We buy coal from a range of sources with designed to assure that woody biomass the objectives of managing our commercial has been legally and sustainably sourced.
exposures, environmental obligations and diversity of supply.
In 2016, 28% of In 2016 Drax achieved CoC certification for the coal we used came from UK deep and the procurement of wood pellets for the surface mines with the remainder coming generation of electricity and heat under from major supply basins around the the SBP certification scheme.
This enables world, including the US and Colombia.
us to more effectively demonstrate the sustainability of our wood pellet supplies.
When buying from overseas we have Drax will continue to support SBP and continued to require, through our contracts, continue to encourage wood pellet that suppliers meet standards in respect suppliers to achieve certified status.
of compliance with legislation, human rights, labour relations and health and Ofgem assessed SBP in 2015 and found that it safety arrangements.
To this end Drax is met all of the sustainability criteria laid out by the an active member of an initiative called UK Government.
More information can be found Bettercoal.
This is a not-for-profit organisation at www.
org founded by a number of major European coal generators that sets out to encourage mining companies to demonstrate that they operate in a socially responsible way.
41 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED SMART SOLUTIONS FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Sustainability and protecting the environment are crucial to Drax and the localcommunities in which we operate.
Environmental compliance at Drax Power Station and the ashdisposal site associated with it is managed under an environment management system.
This system is now externally validated and certified to thenew international standard ISO 14001 2015.
Itis audited twice every year.
Over the last 12 months, Drax Power United Nations Framework Convention Reducing CO emissions 2 Station has continued its drive to manage on Climate Change UNFCCC.
A principal indicator of Group performance its impact on the environment, whether is CO emissions, calculated under the 2 that be carbon, NOx, sulphur dioxide, The majority of our emissions result from EU ETS as a ratio of electricity generated particulate emissions into the atmosphere, the process of using solid fuel.
This can before deductions used on site.
use of water or waste to landfill.
make it difficult to identify other smaller trends that are still significant.
To offset Independently verified CO emissions at Drax 2 There have been no major breaches to this dominance and to ensure we retain a Power Station have fallen from 13.3million our environment consents in 2016. balance between highlighting significant tonnes in 2015 to 6 million tonnes in2016.
developments and providing meaningful Thats a decrease of more than 53%.
Emissions to air data, we have adopted a materiality Draxs carbon reporting in accordance threshold of 100,000 tonnes of CO.
This fall is largely due to the conversion 2 with the Companies Act 2006 and the of three of our six generating units European Union Emissions Trading Table 3 sets out Drax total electricity to be fully powered by sustainable System EU ETS is shown in Table 1. generation and the emissions per GWH of biomass rather than coal.
electricity generated by fossil fuel combustion.
Scope 1 accounts for emissions produced by the combustion of coal, heavy fuel and propane to generate electricity, TABLE 1 along with the operation of certain FOSSIL FUEL, OPERATIONS AND PURCHASED ELECTRICITY EMISSIONS plant at the power station, i. e. the flue gas desulphurisation system.
Unit of Activity measure 2016 kt 2015 kt 2014 kt 2013 kt 2012 kt Scope 2 accounts for emissions mainly Scope 1 attributed to electricity purchased to Fossil fuel combustion KT 6,021 13,101 16,476 20,162 22,513 run operations across our various sites.
Operations KT 100 100 119 157 180 These emissions are measured using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, a Corporate Total Scope 1 KT 6,021 13,101 16,595 20,319 22,693 Accounting and Reporting Standard Scope 2 revised edition and the Governments published GHG conversion factors.
Purchased electricity KT 151 216 249 293 341 Total Scope 1 and 2 KT 6,172 13,317 16,844 20,612 23,034 We are also required to disclose emissions from biologically sequestered carbon, which includes emissions released through TABLE 2 the combustion of biomass to generate BIOLOGICALLY SEQUESTERED CARBON BIOMASS COMBUSTION EMISSIONS electricity.
These emissions are shown in Unit of Table 2.
The figures do not take into account Activity measure 2016 kt 2015 kt 2014 kt 2013 kt 2012 kt the CO that has been absorbed from the 2  atmosphere during the growth of feedstocks carbon biomass which are used to manufacture the biomass combustion KT 11,455 10,238 7,150 2,799 1,214 pellets used at Drax to generate electricity.
TABLE 3 The biogenic CO emissions resulting from 2 TOTAL EMISSIONS PER GWH OF ELECTRICITY GENERATED BY FOSSIL FUEL COMBUSTION power generation are counted as zero in official reporting to both UK authorities Unit of and under the EU ETS as the use of Activity measure 2016 kt 2015 kt 2014 kt 2013 kt 2012 kt sustainable biomass is considered to be Gross generation TWH 20.8 28.1 28.5 28.0 29.0 carbon neutral at the point of combustion.
Emissions per GWH of This methodology originates from the electricity generated T GWH 297.0 474 591 736 794 42 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Another contributing factor is the changing run rates on our coal-fired units.
As these move away from providing constant baseload electricity to providing more flexible support services, they will be running less frequently and for shorter periods, and hence emitting less CO. 2 Alongside carbon dioxide, we also manage allour emissions to the atmosphere and have invested heavily in flue abatement systems tomake sure that we comply with all environmental limits.
All our emissions in 2016were within the limits set by the Environment Agency.
TOTAL EMISSIONS KT 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Sulphur dioxide 8.3 18.5 23.8 31.7 35.1 Nitrogen oxides 14.7 31.4 35.5 39.2 39.2 Dust 1 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.8 WASTE TO LANDFILL Reducing NOx emissions There has been a small increase in waste sent The introduction of the Industrial Emissions Directive from January 2016 requires significant to landfill from Drax Power Station in 2016. reductions in NOx.
Drax Power Station has achieved a reduction from 31 kilotonnes in 2015 The overall percentage of waste not sent to to around 15 kilotonnes this year.
landfill in the past year was 94%.
If we remove exceptional projects, the figure remained This has been achieved by a number of factors: at 98%, the same as in the previous year.
using biomass rather than coal for generation: The largest exceptional project was the the installation of new low-NOx burners: removal of the plastic packing material that using low-NOx coal: is used to provide extra surface area for fitting five out of six generating units with selective non-catalytic reduction water to evaporate on at the base of the SNCR equipment.
cooling towers at Drax Power Station.
SNCR works by releasing urea into the combustion chamber where it combines with oxides Because we use water abstracted from ofnitrogen to produce atmospheric nitrogen and water.
the River Ouse in our cooling towers, over time this packing material becomes PARTICULATES silted up with river mud.
This means that it Particulates released into the environment by Drax Power Station have increased slightly from needs periodically to be removed, with the 0.9 kilotonnes to 1.0 kilotonnes in 2016, but remain well within the permitted limits.
old material sent to landfill and replaced with new packing.
2016 saw just such a This increase is mainly due to the use of slightly different fuel in the coal-fired generating units.
replacement, which will not be repeated on Use of advantaged fuels, such as pond fines the filtered residue of coal washings and ash that cooling tower for approximately another from biomass that has previously been used in our biomass-fuelled generating units.
The programme itself is ongoing and other cooling towers will undergo the USE OF WATER same treatment over the next 23 years.
Drax Power Station uses water from the River Ouse, and smaller amounts from the Sherwood Sandstone Aquifer and towns mains.
Drax is one of the first applicants to receivecertification under ISO 14001 The water we abstract is principally used for cooling with some also used within the steam 2015, the revised international standard system and ancillary processes, including SNCR.
Around half of the water abstracted forcooling for environmental management systems.
is returned to the River Ouse.
Procedures are in place on site to manage andmonitor drainage Thisdemonstrates our commitment to and water systems andensure that all discharge consent limitsaremet.
andmaintenance of the highest levels ofenvironmental management.
Borehole water use has slightly increased since 2015, from 1.7 million tonnes to 2.2 million tonnes.
This is mainly due to the use of the SNCR system to reduce NOx emissions, which requires increased supplies of water.
This is a temporary increase which will be addressed with the commissioning of the new on-site SNCR water treatment plant.
WATER ABSTRACTION MT 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 River Ouse water 52.9 60.6 62.5 56.9 56.7 Mains water 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.3 0.2 Borehole water 2.2 1.7 1.7 1.9 1.9 Water utilised on site and discharged to the River Ouse 28.4 35.2 34.1 31.5 30.8 43 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED PEOPLE AND CULTURE At the year-end, Drax Group employed atotal of 1,488 people.
Thecharts below break down the number of employees across all Group businesses.
Almost all our employees are on permanentcontracts.
The charts show the split EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Employment contracts Employment gender across the whole Group, We carried out an engagement survey of together with the senior all our UK and US employees in October management team Board, 1 1 2016.
Developed and delivered with Towers 2 Executive Committee and Watson, the survey attracted a participation direct reports.
The Boards rate of 76% overall.
Across all categories of diversity policy is explained 2 question, the results demonstrated a positive in the Nominations variance compared with the norm for Towers Committee report.
Watsons Global Energy and Utilities surveys.
74 Overall, 37% of the workforce across the 1.
Male 75% Group is covered by collective bargaining.
Female 25% We have representative employee consultation and information arrangements in place for those employees who have individual employment contracts.
We make use of a range of channels to communicate with colleagues and inform them of any important developments in Group operations.
We also provide frequent Business unit distribution Employment status Senior management opportunities for employees to feed back.
Group gender diversity 2 5 1 1 1 EMPLOYEE POLICIES AND RELATIONS 4 All our employees benefit from a range of policies to support them in the workplace.
2 3 These include policies designed to enable, if 2 appropriate, a range of different work lifestyle preferences, processes whereby employees can raise grievances or concerns about safety, along with supporting a diverse and inclusive workplace.
Male 78% in employment practices and strives to give 2.
Female 22% employees long-term employment security.
Billington Bioenergy 2% 2016 saw a number of key developments in this field.
We successfully launched the Drax Group intranet, making it easier to communicate with one another across the Group, and giving us an online platform through which to share learning.
We are developing an ongoing learning programme to help individuals and managers through a suite of online and offline resources.
44 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT PEOPLE STRATEGY OUR JOURNEY TO 2020 The solution is not about one size fits all At Drax, we understand that our people as the culture, employee populations and are the key to our success now and in life cycle of each of the Groups businesses the future.
To make that success more differ widely.
Rather its about developing sustainable, throughout 2016 we have base-level consistency in core areas to allow undertaken a root and branch review of the Group as a whole to take advantage our approach to HR across the Group.
of an integrated approach to HR.
Through an extensive consultation Working across the four businesses that make process, we have now developed a up the Group, we have agreed a set of shared world-class people strategy that will HR values.
impact employees at all levels across the Group and take us forward to2020.
We have also started on delivering a People Plan that will take us through to 2020.
As the This strategy focuses on three key diagram below shows, this is based around We have recently completed our first areas, which will help Drax create a highour four main focus areas, supported by the leadership training programme across our performance, sustainable organisation that is required foundations and building blocks.
optimally placed to deliver our strategic and We carry out annual performance and operational objectives.
These three areas are: This strategy will enable us to develop a development reviews for every employee.
culture which values what people do, as Every employee benefits from support Valuing our people well as valuing the way in which they do it.
with his or her personal and career Driving business performance development, helping them develop Focusing on talent This new culture will be reflected at every thetechnical skills, leadership and level throughout the organisation, from management skills and the personal In particular, our new people strategy is the systems we use to review performance behaviours that will help us drive our designed to enable us to: to the development of learning materials, Business Plan forward.
and will be reflected in the way we reward We have strengthened our in-house team attract and recruit the right people to drive and remunerate our employees.
in order to support these initiatives and to the business forward: deliver our HR 2020 strategic plan.
objectively differentiate between By working together across the Group we can ourpeople: better support our employees in all aspects of REWARD AND RECOGNITION leverage expertise across the Group: their working lives, investing in the areas that Our remuneration and reward packages are improve cross functional and cross matter from career and personal development regularly checked against benchmarks in our business working: to leadership skills and process efficiency.
own sector of industry and across the entire adapt and respond to constant change: market on either a national or a local level develop and retain a deep pipeline of We are very much at the beginning of this depending on the individual role concerned.
leadership and specialist talent: journey, but we are committed to reaching instil confidence and pride in the end.
By fulfilling this commitment, we will We encourage our UK employees to take ouremployees: give ourselves the best possible opportunity ownership of the business in which they drive performance.
of finding, developing and rewarding the right work through a range of share plans.
people to help the Group grow and thrive.
The foundations we are building with our HR 2020 FOCUS AREAS new HR strategy will enable us to take a more holistic view of reward and recognition so that we can create even more personal packages tailored to an individuals needs.
REWARD RECRUITMENT LEARNING AND TALENT DEVELOPMENT MINDSET OPENNESS LEADERSHIP BUILDING BLOCKS INTUITIVE SIMPLE HR SYSTEMS LOOK FEEL BEHAVIOURS REQUIRED FOUNDATIONS FAIR EQUITABLE SEGMENTATION 45 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
