Strategic Report Strategic Report 31 Employees One of our four strategic goals is to realise the potential of our people.
We believe that the best way to achieve 2015 16 HIGHLIGHTS: that goal is to develop both our people Integrated c. 4,000 new colleagues following acquisitions.
and their working environment so that Opened a Sharesave Plan invitation to colleagues from 32 countries.
DSSmith employees are proud and able 1,456 managers trained on our Engaging Managers course.
to give their best at work.
Provided apprenticeship work experience and readiness The Human Resources HR strategy reflects this ambition by for work activities in five countries across Europe as part focusing in three main areas: of Alliance for YOUth.
To develop our talent pool to ensure we have the capability All packaging sites in the UK taking part in Heart Research to meet the growth and profit aspirations of the Group: UK Healthy Heart Mark programme.
To maximise the contribution and personal accountability of all employees: and To attract, retain, develop and motivate a diverse and Our talent management process identifies and supports capable workforce.
high potential and high performing individuals with tailored development plans.
Over the past year we have seen individuals These strategic priorities are underpinned by an ongoing from this population take on new challenges or larger roles within commitment to design and maintain a global HR operating model the Group and continue to view this process as a way to meet the that supports the strategic direction and business needs of DSSmith.
ever increasing demands for talent at all levels of an ambitious and growing business.
DEVELOPING OUR TALENT POOL DSSmith has also focused on developing our people managers To enhance the existing performance and talent management throughout the business in order to bring consistency of practice processes, DSSmith has refreshed its framework of Leadership that is completely aligned to our values.
The Engaging Managers Competencies with an eye to simplify and clarify their purpose programme is designed to set clear expectations of managers in and application so that managers and colleagues can make best DSSmith and to promote an engaging and inclusive management use of them as part of fair and equal opportunity processes.
ENGAGING MANAGERS This powerful course has three phases: preparation self-reflection and collecting 360 feedback : off-site course interactive experiential learning : and implementation turning the learning into action with the support of individual coaching.
63 internal facilitators have been trained the materials have been translated into 13 languages the course has been delivered in 14 countries to 1,456 managers in 2015 16 the response has been outstanding: I think it was a good tool for the individual to evaluate their management style to understand where they are making mistakes as well as the good practices they encompass during their day-to-day activities.
Our values are definitely not just posters on the wall.
com 32 Strategic Report Employees continued style.
It has been running for one year and the case study explains ALLIANCE FOR YOUTH more about the reach and impact it is having on our managers and As an organisation, DSSmith is their teams.
always looking to bring in fresh ideas and new thinking and ATTRACTING, DEVELOPING AND MOTIVATING also to balance the age and A DIVERSE WORKFORCE gender profile of the workforce.
Acquisitions in south east Europe, Iberia, Greece and Turkey have Equally, as an employer across introduced colleagues with differing cultural perspectives to our Europe, we are well aware of Group, adding to the diverse composition of our employee base.
the difficulties facing young people in some of our markets in DSSmith values diverse thinking because it strengthens our finding employment.
For these reasons, DSSmith was delighted decision making and fuels creativity and innovation.
to be presented with an opportunity to address both topics by joining the Nestl-founded Alliance for YOUth and by providing However, moving from separate businesses to one unified Group apprenticeships, work experience and readiness for work requires a thoughtful and thorough integration process with activities in nine countries across Europe.
respect and sensitivity for any cultural differences.
We have supported each of the new businesses joining DSSmith with This was exemplified in a recent Girls Day, hosted by our a cultural integration programme titled Stronger Together.
packaging site in Fulda, Germany.
26 girls, all under the age of 15, took part in a one-day internship aiming to expose the girls DSSmith is an equal opportunities employer and is firmly to career opportunities that they might otherwise dismiss as committed to both the principle and realisation of equality as set male-specific.
The girls were shown a wide range of business out in our Code of Conduct.
We remain committed to strengthening areas including quality management, packaging technology, the pipeline of senior female executives within the business and media technology and product design.
are taking steps to ensure that there are no barriers to women succeeding at any level within DSSmith.
In 2015, Alliance for YOUth activity within DSSmith was focused in the UK, France, Italy, Germany, Austria, Denmark, Sweden, Finland and Switzerland.
GENDER DIVERSITY For 2016 onwards, we will be expanding that focus to the entire business.
The principles that the Alliance for YOUth stands for Board Senior Management are complementary to the way that DSSmith operates in the communities in which we exist and we wish to endorse the 9% Alliance in all areas of our business.
25% 75% 91% Male: 6 Male: 144 Female: 2 Female: 15 Group 21% Employee data, based on all permanent employees as at 30 April 2016.
79% Our senior management population consists of the Group Operations Committee excluding executive Male: 20,833 directors plus those who report into the Group Operations Committee.
Female: 5,475 Strategic Report Strategic Report 33 DSSmith formally measures employee engagement using a MAXIMISING THE CONTRIBUTION AND PERSONAL biennial employee survey of all employees, but a pulse survey ACCOUNTABILITY OF ALL EMPLOYEES was conducted in November 2015 to track our progress.
It showed The DSSmith OWN IT!
programme is designed to increase the pace excellent improvements against our two main indices across the and consistency of Group-wide strategy deployment through the Group up 12 per cent in employee engagement and up 10 per cent engagement of our people.
This year has seen an evolution of the in performance enablement.
programme to reflect better the current aspirations of the Group and the business need for simplicity in a diverse and dynamic Employee share ownership provides an opportunity for individuals organisation.
The 2015 management conference was used to to engage with the performance of the Group and the potential to collect the input of 160 senior leaders and to test new ideas and share in future success.
For this reason, we ran another invitation approaches that can inspire and engage colleagues of all levels and for our award-winning international Sharesave Plan in 32 countries in any of our markets.
The result is an updated strategic narrative world-wide to be able to include employees from new regions who and a clear programme of activity that will be rolled out over had joined through acquisitions this year.
These will act as the glue that binds the strategic projects and initiatives together and provides a vehicle to get support and For more information about OWN IT!
see our involvement from all colleagues in delivering those projects.
Sustainability Report STRONGER TOGETHER FEEDBACK FROM A STRONGER TOGETHER The name of our cultural integration programme stronger EVENT, BUDAPEST, HUNGARY: together captures the spirit of our activities and intent completely.
We truly believe that DSSmith and the companies acquired have many complementary strengths and capabilities.
Therefore, we promote an open, sharing environment from day one in order to understand, utilise and maximise those 100% opportunities to learn and improve the whole organisation.
of managers joining from Immediately following the completion of each acquisition, the Duropack business DSSmith runs an event for managers from the existing and stated that at the end of acquired businesses.
These events are structured to include the event they understood interactive sessions on our strategy, our structure, our values, the DSSmith vision, values the integration process and how to support your team back on site.
98% The toolkit provided to the managers to cascade the conversations said they had a clear they had been part of included video testimonials from colleagues understanding of the who had gone through an integration process with DSSmith and a role they would play full set of translated guides, posters and presentations to organise as leaders.
their own event when they returned.
Nigel Hayter, Group HR Director, presents at the Duropack integration conference, June 2015 dssmith.
com 34 Strategic Report Employees continued We are delighted to report another year where our key safety HEALTH AND SAFETY measures of LTAs and of AFR have both continued to improve.
The safety of our people remains a cornerstone of our business.
We seek to improve our performance continuously as a Group This has been the result of a programme of continuous and strive to ensure that all of our colleagues, contractors, improvement and the high priority assigned to safe working agency workers and members of the public are kept safe.
Total number of employee LTAs was 120, which is an 18 per cent reduction since last year.
The number of sites HEALTH AND SAFETY KEY PERFORMANCE with zero LTAs was 211, up from 182 last year.
INDICATORS During the period, we acquired five businesses, each of which 2015 16- had a markedly higher AFR than our existing businesses.
We 2014 15 2015 16 2014 15 2013 14 Change have worked hard to ensure that the focus on safety leadership, augmented by audits and investments in safety equipment Total LTAs 120 146 171 18% and machinery guarding programmes, have been rapidly AFR 3.2 4.2 4.8 24% adopted during the integration projects of these businesses.
Definition: Lost Time Accident LTA : number of accidents resulting in lost A Health, Safety and Environment Leadership Team co-ordinates time of one shift or more.
Accident Frequency Rate AFR : number of LTAs Group policy and ensures that best practice from the various parts per million hours worked.
of the organisation are shared and disseminated throughout the We are committed to achieving a zero accident culture and recognise business.
This team meets quarterly to review major LTAs high that more work needs to be done on improving our sites, reducing potential severity incidents, and to coordinate audit activity and risks and raising our safety awareness.
We believe that this target, accident investigation.
We will continue to set stretching safety although challenging, is achievable.
targets using a variety of leading indicators, as well as lagging key performance indicators, in order to develop a stronger zero accident culture in allsites, irrespective of how long they have been part of the DSSmith Group.
HEALTHY HEARTS DSSmiths Healthy Heart Mark employee campaign in the UK has enjoyed continued success since its launch in January 2014.
With every packaging site across the UK taking part in the HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMUNICATION Healthy Heart Checks that Heart Research UK provide, a At DSSmith, health and safety remains our number one priority.
combined 1,694 workers have been asked questions about We are committed to the highest standards of safety, and are their lifestyle habits, and have been given the opportunity to keen to ensure DSSmith is an engaging employer whose have their blood pressure, cholesterol levels, BMI and waist people can thrive and fulfil their potential.
These sites are also engaging in a range from our colleagues highlighted the need to communicate our of healthy activities including pedometer challenges, free fruit health and safety message consistently across all countries days, weekly weigh-ins, cycle to work schemes, gym subsidies, using graphics and imagery instead of words.
football tournaments and quit smoking initiatives.
Much of the campaigns success can be attributed to the hard work, passion It was decided to introduce a consistent communication toolkit and commitment of designated Healthy Heart Champions, across the business which empowered local teams to highlight who effectively bring the initiatives to life, pulling together teams the dangers of their workplace environment.
This toolkit is and helping bring together a diverse range of healthy lifestyles.
centred around a character based on a corrugated box called Boxy, and is the face of our health and safety campaigns.
These efforts have been officially recognised by Heart Research UK: 29 sites have been presented with Bronze Awards, with 15 Boxy is always on hand to highlight the potential dangers going on to achieve Silver Awards.
These awards are given in we face in our work environment.
Humble and humorous, recognition of the efforts to promote and educate employees the characters simple form makes it easy to craft instantly about the benefits of making healthy lifestyle decisions, and to recognisable workplace scenarios and situations, and to ensure that they are embedded into the culture of the workplace.
develop strong messages that illustrate the health and safety risks across our business.
Boxy posters will be prevalent across all of our sites, highlighting the dangers posed in the workplace and encouraging best practice.
