14 Strategic Report Our market environment CORRUGATED PACKAGING PLASTIC PACKAGING PAPER RECYCLING EUROPEAN CORRUGATED PACKAGING MARKET WHAT WE DO DS Smith designs and manufactures corrugated packaging.
We focus DSSmith has three parts to its plastics business: DSSmith manufactures recycled paper, We source fibre from used paper and old particularly on packaging for fast-moving consumer goods such as Flexible packaging and dispensing: We design principally corrugated case material CCM corrugated cases OCC from both retailers 2 Market size 43.4 billion m grocery products.
These need large volumes of high quality packaging and manufacture plastic bags and taps and or testliner, which is the paper used to make and traders.
This fibre is principally used by to complement branded products and requirements change frequently.
fitments for use in bag-in-box packaging corrugated board.
We also have the capability our own paper mills to make recycled paper, We also have leading positions supplying the rapidly growing for liquids.
Our products are used for to manufacture other grades of paper, such with the remainder sold to other paper e-commerce channel.
transportation of beverages, concentrates, as core board and solid board.
manufacturers in Europe and globally.
Bag-and-tap also offer a full recycling service to cover 21% We make packaging for other consumer products such as 24% solutions can be used for commercial other materials such as glass and metals, pharmaceuticals and consumer electronics.
containers, for dispensing beverages in which we then recycle in partnership with restaurants or as a consumer product, such subcontractors.
The remainder of our business is for industrial products such as as a wine box.
Our flexible packaging business automotive spare parts and bulk materials.
Industrial packaging In addition, we offer a range of value-added operates globally.
is often very high precision and involves complex designs.
services, such as recycling and environmental Rigid packaging: We design and manufacture audits and consultancy to help customers 8% 15% rigid plastic packaging products for the manage their materials most efficiently and transportation of food and drinks, healthcare optimise the value of their waste.
DSSmith is products and automotive products.
This different to other recyclate collectors because 10% business operates in Europe and North America.
we do not operate landfill sites our sole focus Foam products: We design and manufacture 12% is on recycling, with a target of helping our 10% foam moulded, custom-designed components customers achieve zero waste.
OUR CUSTOMERS Germany UK Our plastics division works with many of the The majority of the CCM that we make is We source our fibre from direct agreements DS Smith customer type Italy Poland worlds leading companies in a diverse range used by our own corrugated packaging with other corporates, principally retailers, France Other of industries and markets.
business, with the remainder sold to other and from third party traders.
60 per cent of the fibre we collect is used Source: FEFCO 2014 FMCG and agriculture by DSSmith mills and the remainder is sold All other grades are sold externally.
to paper markets across Europe.
Other consumer 10% Industrial 68% DS Smith recycling volumes by region European market split by customer type % DS Smith has a greater share of FMCG and other consumer products, compared to the market.
39% 44% OUR OPERATIONS Head office in Brussels.
22 manufacturing sites in Europe, Five large mills in Germany, Italy, Operates in Croatia, France, Germany, New Zealand, Thailand and the US.
Italy, Macedonia, the Netherlands, 30 countries across Europe plus consultancy services in Europe, Poland, Serbia, Slovakia and the UK.
Sales offices in Belgium, France, UK and Four small mills in Bulgaria, Croatia the US.
Sales offices in Belgium, France, Italy c. 5.3 million tonnes fibre collected 24 updated Impact and PackRight Centres.
17% c. 3.6 million tonnes of corrugated packaging per annum.
c. 2.4 million tonnes recycled CCM c. 800 employees.
Number 1 market share for collection of c. 0.3 million tonnes other paper per annum.
FMCG and agriculture Other consumer c. 2,100 employees.
Industrial 2 MARKET FACTS AND Source: FEFCO 2014 Total European corrugated market size: 22.4 million tonnes 43.4 billion m. Global market for specialist flexible Total European market for CCM: 26 million Total European market for fibre collection CHARACTERISTICS packaging and dispensing c. 800 million.
tonnes of which recycled comprises 55 million tonnes Source: CEPI 2014.
DS Smith is the leading corrugated box manufacturer in Europe with c. 22 million tonnes and the remainder the broadest geographic reach.
Plastic packaging is a specialist market UK market for fibre collection 8 million tonnes is kraftliner Source: CEPI 2014. with numerous niche products.
DS Smith has significant market positions in most of the major market Paper is readily transportable and is regions in which we operate.
Fibre is traded within Europe and traded within Europe and between exported globally.
Corrugated packaging is typically produced within c. 200 km of its Europe and America.
destination due to the requirements for just-in-time delivery and 29 per cent of CCM production in Europe the relative bulkiness of the product.
is in Germany, followed by France, The use of higher quality corrugated packaging is demonstrated by Slovenia and Italy Source: CEPI 2014. the steady increase in the use of three or more colours on corrugated packaging, across the market and our recent investment in pre-print digital capabilities.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report 15 CORRUGATED PACKAGING PLASTIC PACKAGING PAPER RECYCLING WHAT WE DO DS Smith designs and manufactures corrugated packaging.
We focus DSSmith has three parts to its plastics business: DSSmith manufactures recycled paper, We source fibre from used paper and old particularly on packaging for fast-moving consumer goods such as Flexible packaging and dispensing: We design principally corrugated case material CCM corrugated cases OCC from both retailers grocery products.
Bag-and-tap also offer a full recycling service to cover We make packaging for other consumer products such as solutions can be used for commercial other materials such as glass and metals, pharmaceuticals and consumer electronics.
services, such as recycling and environmental Rigid packaging: We design and manufacture audits and consultancy to help customers rigid plastic packaging products for the manage their materials most efficiently and transportation of food and drinks, healthcare optimise the value of their waste.
This different to other recyclate collectors because business operates in Europe and North America.
we do not operate landfill sites our sole focus Foam products: We design and manufacture is on recycling, with a target of helping our foam moulded, custom-designed components customers achieve zero waste.
OUR CUSTOMERS Our plastics division works with many of the The majority of the CCM that we make is We source our fibre from direct agreements DS Smith customer type worlds leading companies in a diverse range used by our own corrugated packaging with other corporates, principally retailers, of industries and markets.
60 per cent of the fibre we collect is used Flexible Rigid Foam by DSSmith mills and the remainder is sold Market Packaging Packaging Products All other grades are sold externally.
Beverage DS Smith recycling volumes by region Pharma Auto UK 14% Fresh Western Europe DS Smith has a greater share of FMCG and other consumer products, 36% Produce DCH and compared to the market.
Construction Northern Europe 35% Central Europe Retail 15% and Italy OUR OPERATIONS Head office in Brussels.
c. 3.6 million tonnes of corrugated packaging per annum.
2 MARKET FACTS AND Total European corrugated market size: 22.4 million tonnes 43.4 billion m. Global market for specialist flexible Total European market for CCM: 26 million Total European market for fibre collection CHARACTERISTICS packaging and dispensing c. 800 million.
