16 Strategic Report How we create sustainable value Our business model is focused on sustainable packaging.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL We bring insight and innovation, use this to design the optimum packaging for our customers supply chains, then manufacture it to the INSIGHT highest standard.
To support the production of high quality, cost effective corrugated packaging, we manufacture paper and have a recycling business to source fibre for this activity.
We design and manufacture specialised lightweight paper grades to produce the highest performing packaging from the least amount of fibre.
PAPER We also design and manufacture certain types of speciality plastic packaging, MANUFACTURE INNOVATION in particular plastic bags and taps for CORRUGATED bag-in-box packaging and rigid crates & PLASTIC for bottled liquids.
PACKAGING RECYCLING 1 Balance of our combined businesses million tonnes Corrugated packaging is our primary output: DESIGN Fibre sourcing recycling 5.3 SUPPORTED BY CCM manufacturing OUR VALUES 2.4 Key Corrugated packaging 3.6 Be caring Be responsive Be challenging Be tenacious Be trusted 1 Based on annualised contribution from all businesses owned on 30 April 2016.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report 17 CORRUGATED PACKAGING PLASTIC PACKAGING We add value by helping our customers reduce their costs, sell more, We design specialist plastic packaging solutions in close collaboration and manage their risk through the design of their packaging.
The design of taps and fitments for liquids are often able to do this through our skills in innovation, design and manufacture, specific to the type of liquid, in order to optimise filling and dispensing, and our insight into consumer behaviour in the retail environment.
and we own hundreds of patents covering our designs and products.
We are able to invest in the skills necessary to deliver this due to Once we have a design that fulfils our customers requirements, we our scale, and we offer our solutions on a pan-European basis.
are able to manufacture on a large scale and distribute the product globally, as the product is light and readily transportable.
Our rigid plastic In order to reduce costs for our customers, we analyse where packaging products are manufactured in Europe for the European market, in scale interacts with their activities, and consider how it might be optimised.
operations principally focused in France, the UK and Spain.
Our flexible For example, we optimise the box strength and size for stacking in a plastic products are manufactured in Germany, Bulgaria, Slovakia, the lorry, and optimise the design for speed on the packing line, culminating US, New Zealand and Thailand and are distributed globally.
in how easily it can be opened and displayed once in store.
We also look at how packaging works best once on a retailers shelf, in order to drive sales and improve the handling costs for the retailer.
Once a box is used, it then needs to be easily recycled, and the journey begins again.
We employ a range of skills in order to fulfil our customers expectations.
We start with analysing what the customer needs from the packaging in terms of physical performance across the supply chain, and we design suitable packaging based on that specification.
We have developed these performance packaging innovations to fundamentally change how packaging is sold in Europe.
Our paper business works in close collaboration with our corrugated packaging business to develop high performance paper that best suits the needs of the packaging designers and the manufacturing process.
We also work with our customers and supply our unique insight consulting services on how packaging can maximise sales by optimising availability within store, through brand visibility and ease of use.
Our scale gives us a commercial advantage and allows us to deliver this quality of service sustainably.
Our ability to provide pan-European solutions, via our extensive manufacturing base, is a key differentiator compared to our competitors.
We work with leading FMCG and industrial customers to supply packaging to their own network of factories, with guarantees for service and quality that apply across the business.
For example, our customers know that the packaging for their branded product will be in precisely the correct specified colour, wherever it has been manufactured.
This is all part of our strategic commitment to delight our customers.
Our scale also allows us to invest in research, innovation and design, for example, our network of design centres.
The benefit and costs are then shared across the business.
We are therefore able to offer a high standard of product while maintaining competitive pricing.
This is key to our success with customers, as demonstrated by our consistent volume growth ahead of market growth.
com 18 Strategic Report How we create sustainable value continued RECYCLING PAPER Our recycling business supports and adds value to our paper operations Our paper business is an essential partner to our packaging business.
by providing them with the fibre required, to a consistent and well We seek to optimise the level of integration of the businesses as defined quality, which in turn enables our paper mills to produce much as practicable, with the paper operations focused on producing paper with precisely the performance characteristics required by the the paper required by packaging, to the correct quality standard and packaging business.
Our recycling business also supports our corrugated consistency.
Any testliner not used by the DSSmith packaging business packaging business by helping retailers get best value from their used and all our other grades of paper are sold to third parties.
We seek to corrugated material, driving the use of corrugated packaging over other compete on the quality of our product, while our scale and efficiency packaging materials.
means that we remain cost competitive.
We buy and sort the fibre we collect, with the fibre that does not go We undertake research and development of paper in collaboration to our own mills sold to third party paper mills or exporters.
with our packaging operations to achieve the optimal result.
We have increased our production of papers particularly suited to high quality packaging, such as white-top grades.
At the same time, the paper mills are focused on their operational excellence.
We have a LEAN team programme of highly skilled engineers who work with all the sites in turn to ensure that best practice is shared and implemented.
This ensures we maximise profitability by minimising costs.
OUR FUNCTION BUSINESS HEADS DSSmith manages its corrugated packaging operations on a regional basis with our packaging, paper and recycling functions integrated to optimise efficiency between them.
In order to ensure consistency of our approach to customers, and the highest operational performance, we also have heads for each business function.
Plastics is managed separately from our fibre-based packaging businesses.
Colin McIntyre Stefano Rossi Mark Smith Head of Paper and Recycling Head of Packaging Head of Plastics Annual Report & Accounts 2016
