Strategic Report Strategic Report 35 Sustainability Our core business is inherently sustainable.
Our position as Europes largest recycler and reprocessor of paper for recycling ensures this.
Sustainability means many things to many people.
At DSSmith, OUR PRINCIPLES we are focusing on three key areas: We remain committed to conducting our business in a responsible manner.
We believe that delighting our customers and ensuring Our Business creating enduring value through responsible our employees operate in a safe and productive workplace is the recycling, paper and packaging.
only sustainable route to the long-term creation of value for our Our Environment minimising our impact, from design to shareholders.
DSSmith subscribes to a number of international production and supply to recycling.
standards and guidelines relevant to corporate responsibility and Our People ensuring the safety, wellbeing and development business conduct, including: of colleagues and contributing to our communities.
United Nations Global Compact: United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention HIGHLIGHTS on the Rights of the Child: During the last year, DSSmith has actively listened to a variety of International Labour Organization eight Fundamental stakeholders including our largest pan-European customers.
This Conventions: and engagement with stakeholders, together with a focus on meeting Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development their needs, has resulted in, amongst other successes, our Carbon Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
Disclosure Project CDP score improving to 94C and being awarded gold status by EcoVadis.
Both of these ratings are well above the average in our industry and this external recognition reflects our strategic aims to delight our customers and to lead the way in sustainability.
We recognise the importance of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and have embarked upon a significant investment programme to replace the high bay lighting in our factories with LED lighting.
This has already contributed to a reduction in our scope 2 CO e emissions in 91 sites.
2 DSSMITH CHARITABLE FOUNDATION The DSSmith Charitable Foundation was founded in 2011 and in 2015 16 made donations of over 300,000 to charities.
The purpose of the Charitable Foundation is to support charities with values aligned to those of DSSmith, in particular, charities that support the environment.
As a large employer with a responsibility to the communities in which we operate, the Charitable Foundation also supports charities which help to educate and train young people and assist them into work with a particular emphasis on science and engineering.
More information on the work of the Charitable Foundation, including details of charities that have been supported and also how to apply for funding, can be found at www.
com company sustainability  charitable-trust dssmith.
com 36 Strategic Report Sustainability continued DSSmith has reported its greenhouse gas emissions and climate KEY THEMES change risks to CDP since 2006, and became a corporate member Sustainability means many things to many people.
In order to of SEDEX in February 2015.
In 2016 we improved our CDP score prioritise our activities in the areas that have the greatest to 94C and our EcoVadis rating to Gold.
EcoVadis is an external positive impact we are focusing on three key themes.
platform benchmarking organisations based on their policies, procedures and performance around environmental management, responsible supply chains, labour standards and fair business OUR BUSINESS practise.
The Gold award puts us in the top five per cent of Creating shared value through organisations evaluated by EcoVadis.
responsible recycling, paper and packaging.
MATERIALITY ANALYSIS During March 2016 we refreshed the materiality analysis we last undertook in 2014, with the aim of gaining a better understanding of the issues of greatest concern to our stakeholders and assessing how issues had evolved over the last 24 months.
OUR ENVIRONMENT Minimising our impact, from The materiality analysis also provided a new direction and design to production and supply momentum for specific sustainability areas.
This exercise, which to recycling.
is something we intend to conduct biennially, is the mechanism DSSmith uses to engage a broad spectrum of internal and external stakeholders on sustainability topics of concern to them, and through a rigorous and structured comparison with our own corporate objectives, this process generates new insights and OUR PEOPLE highlights opportunities to improve our position and further Ensuring the safety, wellbeing and delight our customers.
development of colleagues and contributing to our communities.
A variety of quantitative and qualitative methodologies were used to gather information, including questionnaires, workshops and face-to-face visits.
Stakeholders involved included investors, customers, suppliers, insurers and employees.
Our stakeholders were invited to rank a range of issues in order of importance.
Some issues are of universal importance: others are significant only to SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE particular stakeholder groups or within niche areas.
The analysis The Board considers risks arising from sustainability issues as key highlighted topics of significant importance to our stakeholders, risks to the Groups operations.
It ensures that the Group has in where DSSmith is currently performing very well, such as recycling place adequate and effective policies and procedures for managing and waste and supply cycle analysis.
DSSmith has continuously sustainability risks and it receives regular reports on performance.
reduced the amount of waste to landfill, ahead of our targets, and The Group Chief Executive is responsible for sustainability issues.
has found innovative ways to partner with organisations to reduce The Group Sustainability Committee oversees the management waste to landfill wherever possible.
However, there are clearly of these processes, and establishes targets and strategies for identifiable issues that are of high or growing importance to sustainability risks and opportunities.
The Group Sustainability a large number of stakeholders.
These include: Committee is chaired by a member of the Board and all relevant issues are brought to the Board.
Through the Group Operations health and safety Committee, policy is communicated to the heads of each business traceability and transparency unit, and compliance with these policies is monitored throughout fibre sourcing and availability the year.
carbon and energy OUR BUSINESS recycling and waste Our core business is inherently sustainable.
Our position as packaging reputation Europes largest recycler and reprocessor of corrugated board supply cycle thinking and paper for recycling ensures this.
What we have also learned is that there is more to our capability than simply extolling the A more detailed discussion of this materiality analysis exercise virtues of landfill avoidance.
We also have a role to play in the can be read in our 2016 Sustainability Report.
design of corrugated packaging, and recent innovations have placed a greater emphasis on the sustainability story of our packaging products.
We believe that our touchpoints in all the stages of packaging design and production give us the opportunity to lead the industry in sustainable packaging.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report 37 Recycling has a vital role to play in the supply cycle and we The Energy Efficiency Directive 2012 27 EU has led to many continue to help customers reduce their waste to landfill and production sites in a number of regions pursuing the ISO 50001 their products carbon footprint.
We have evaluated the programme and intend to roll out this initiative to all regions The Group has consolidated its sustainability reporting capabilities in 2017. and has continued to make investments in the systems, processes and resources needed to meet customer and other stakeholder Each production site that converts or trades in wood fibre demand for greater transparency in a variety of sustainability or otherwood derivative products is mandated to pursue a fields.
Our closed loop recycling business model already provides recognised programme leading to a chain of custody certification inherently sustainable packaging solutions for our customers.
Once complete, this will result in 100per cent of relevant production sites holding a certification Over the previous 12 months, we have actively engaged with from a credible external body.
We are on track to achieve this our largest pan-European customers and other stakeholders.
We realise that sustainability is fundamental to their commercial strategy and our key account managers make the time to listen We have had no major environmental incidents or incidents and engage with our sustainability counterparts in our customers of significant impact reportable to local or national authorities, organisations.
This is normally done through face to face meetings.
andno incidents potentially resulting in legal prosecution have We recognise that as a supplier to some of the worlds most been reported for the period of this report.
famous brands we have an opportunity to support them to achieve their environmental targets and corporate social responsibility OUR ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS ambitions.
For 2015 16, our environmental targets have remained unchanged.
Relative to production, we aim to: As for our own performance, we measure and report the direct environmental impacts of our factories and production facilities Reduce our CO equivalent CO e emissions from fossil fuels 2 2 and assess our indirect impacts: upstream through our sourcing by 20 per cent over the 10 years to 2020: activities, and downstream in the way our customers utilise our Reduce our water usage in our paper mills by 20 per cent over products and the way consumers dispose of them.
the 10 years to 2020: and Reduce the amount of production rejects sent to landfill OUR ENVIRONMENT by 20per cent over the 10 years to 2020.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT These targets are supported by ongoing action plans.
Since 2013, AND REGULATION we have incorporated reporting on greenhouse gases in our data The Group has a governance structure in place to consider in accordance with statutory requirements, and we express this carbonemissions, energy usage, water consumption, waste target in terms of CO e. 2 andproduct responsibility.
Each production site is required to implement an environmental management system which is We are pleased to have achieved a reduction in our overall CO e 2 appropriate to its level of activity.
At present, 116 manufacturing emissions per tonne of production as well as a slight reduction in sites have an ISO 14001 certification.
our overall CO e. Our gross scope 1 emissions have increased as 2 DIVERTING PAPER DUST In the UK, our Plymouth and Launceston sites found an inventive way of diverting cardboard dust away from landfill by partnering with the Eden Project.
This relationship helps the Eden Project divert further waste away from landfill and produce an end product in a sustainable way that is returned back to the earth.
The Eden Project turns all visitor and staff food waste more than 32 tonnes per annum, into compost rather than sending it to landfill.
The Group provides a valuable ingredient that helps this happen.
The ingredient is cardboard dust, a waste product, which would otherwise go to landfill.
The partnership is an example of Supply Cycling thinking in action and it allows both parties to reduce their impact on the environment by reducing the amount of waste sent to landfill by c. 45 tonnes per annum.
Reducing impact on the environment dssmith.
com 38 Strategic Report Sustainability continued a consequence of a full years output from our Combined Heat years will be diluted by our operations in these markets.
For this and Power CHP installation at our paper mill in Italy, which has reason, in our Sustainability Report we publish absolute values, resulted in a corresponding drop in scope 2 emissions and a by country, and establish site-specific targets to achieve zero substantial year-on-year increase in our exported energy.
Of the waste to landfill in a timeframe that is feasible based on local 193 sites where a year-on-year comparison is possible, 60 have waste management capacity and legislative requirements.
achieved reductions in absolute scope 1 emissions.
This is the Our Recycling division is leading the way in this regard.
consequence of greater production efficiency and continued investments in more efficient boilers and fuel switching.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS We collect environmental data on a monthly basis, and report Analysis of our performance in reducing scope 2 emissions tells this data for the previous calendar year in order to align with asimilar story, with 91 sites achieving an absolute reduction.
the generally accepted practice of industry peers and external Thishas largely been driven by initiatives to replace high bay stakeholders.
This aids sector and industry benchmarking.
Furthermore, the Group has broadened its analysis of energy usage to include some sources of scope 3 Emissions figures given in this report are therefore all on a calendar emissions, such as business travel and hired third party transport.
The environmental performance data table overleaf We have taken steps to monitor emissions from these sources and, displays the data for calendar year 2015 together with the data over time, reduce emissions.
The figure for total production volume, used to normalise our total Since we published our numbers last year we have made some emissions, water and waste figures, has increased by 8 per cent changes to our methodology around the way we measure steam, since the previous year.
This is due to two factors.
Firstly our as well as how we measure production from our Packaging operations had a record production year, with many sites breaking division.
To ensure consistency we have applied the new their production records, and secondly, two businesses which the methodology to our 2013 and 2014 data.
We believe that the Group acquired in 2014 have now entered our statistics.
changes in our methodology give a more accurate reflection of our greenhouse gas emissions.
More information on the changes The total emissions of greenhouse gases aggregates the made to our reporting methodology will be included in our 2016 emissions of a number of businesses with dissimilar impacts and sustainability report.
During 2015, a number of recycling depots were closed but these were replaced by several high volume OUR PEOPLE corrugated packaging facilities, resulting in an increase in net During the last year, there has been an increasing focus on our tonnes produced.
A large increase in overall volume produced suppliers as a consequence of the 2015 Modern Slavery Act and combined with a marginal fall in net CO e emissions has resulted 2 we have begun to work even more closely with our suppliers for in a substantial reduction in CO e intensity.
This is mostly due 2 greater transparency in our supply chain on issues of broader to the switching of our energy-intensive Lucca paper mill in Italy social concern, as well as continuing to work on reducing from using bought electricity to generating its own power using greenhouse gas emissions.
Our People includes information on our colleagues wellbeing, Record production has also affected the effluent water intensity health and safety and contributing to our communities.
In absolute terms there was a decrease due to the information can be found on page 31. divestment of some water intensive facilities and initiatives at our remaining sites to increased internal water recycling in our manufacturing processes.
Further to this, the overall denominator of all production across the Group results in a better figure for our FTSE4GOOD target as we make more with less waste.
As indicated last year, this FTSE Group confirms that DSSmith has been independently particular target is becoming less relevant as we focus more closely assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied on the role waterand steam play as carriers and stores of thermal the requirements to remain a constituent of the FTSE4Good energy.
Future efforts will concentrate on reducing water Index Series.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have throughput per tonne of production, and in the coming year met stringent environmental, social and governance criteria, this will result in a recalibrated target.
and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practice.
As our business mix across Europe continues to evolve, we must not lose focus on our landfill targets.
In 2015, we reduced waste to landfill by 20 per cent by focusing investments on our most high-impact facilities, which has resulted in a 26 per cent improvement in our waste to landfill per tonne of production.
The Group is increasingly expanding into areas where the recycling infrastructure is not as developed as it is in our traditional markets, so our Group-level improvements which we have made in previous Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report 39 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GLOBAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Data for period 1 January to 31 December of each year 2014 2015 Unit of measure 2015 2014 2013 Change Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities ktonnes of CO e 1,540 1,279 1,183 20.4% 2 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use ktonnes of CO e 347 551 573 32.1% 2 CO e impact of electricity, heat, and steam exported to third parties ktonnes of CO e 342 235 187 45.8% 2 2 Total 1,545 1,555 1,569 0.7% OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2014 2015 Unit of measure 2015 2014 2013 Change Total production ktonnes 6,802 6,294 6,257 8.1% Electricity, heat, and steam exported to third parties GWh 845 570 457 48.3% 3 Total effluent water discharged Mm 15.9 16.9 16.0 6.4% Total waste to landfill ktonnes 49.8 62.4 61.9 20.2% OUR ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS 2014 2015 Unit of measure 2015 2014 2013 Change Emissions per tonne of production CO e net of energy exports kg CO e tonne 227.1 247.1 250.8 8.1% 2 2 3 Total effluent water discharged per tonne of production m tonne 2.3 2.7 2.6 13.4% Total waste to landfill per tonne of production kg tonne 7.3 9.9 9.9 26.2% Methodology 1 Data from sites we have owned for the whole of 2015 only.
We will report on sites acquired in 2015 in next years figures.
2 Total production figure is sum of printed reels produced by our paper mills, paper reels produced by our paper mills, plastics production all types produced by our plastics plants, recycled fibre collected and processed through our physical depot network, recycled other materials collected and processed through our physical depot network and boxes produced by our packaging plants corrugators and sheet plants.
The production of our Packaging division was calculated by converting thousand square metres into tonnes using the average weight of the product.
It also includes the production from six sheetfeeders which produce no boxes, but only corrugated board.
3 DS Smith collects and reports environmental data in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHGP, to the extent that this is practicable.
4 The figures reported above include data from all the Groups wholly-owned or majority-owned manufacturing operations.
Actual consumption figures were available for all 193 sites in scope.
5 The CO and CO e emissions were calculated using the UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs 2015 emissions factors.
The factors used 2 2 for converting grid electricity reflect the mix of fuels used for electricity generation in each country.
6 Scope 3 emissions, from sources external to DS Smith but involved in the supply cycle for the Groups products and services, are not included.
7 The waste figures relate to waste generated by our operations: they do not include waste that is collected from external sources for recycling.
8 The CHP plant that supplies Witzenhausen with steam is fired predominantly by biogenic fuels.
The emissions factor for this site has been estimated as 92.019 kg MWh of CO e. 2 VERIFICATION STATEMENT FROM BUREAU VERITAS UK LTD Bureau Veritas UK has been commissioned by DSSmith Plc DS Smith for the eighth year to provide an independent opinion on the following environmental performance indicators: energy consumption, raw material usage, water consumption, waste and discharge to air and water for calendar year 2015.
The reporting boundaries cover DSSmiths global operations.
Having completed a process of assessment including site visits, document review and interrogation of associated management and reporting systems, Bureau Veritas concludes that there is no evidence to suggest that the data presented here is not a fair and accurate representation of DSSmiths performance.
DSSmith should be commended on its approach to consistent data collection and the work which has been undertaken this year to ensure that there is a good understanding of associated processes across the company both at a Group and a site level.
It remains clear that DSSmith is constantly looking to improve its internal processes and has proactively engaged in the verification process.
A full verification statement including the methodology, basis for the opinion, additional recommendations, limitations and a statement of Bureau Veritass independence can be found on the DSSmith Plc website at: www.
com company sustainability environment performance dssmith.
