Corporate responsibility report Operating safe and secure facilities in a Leadership responsible manner is one of our top Our Board sets the tone for our overall approach to and culture businesspriorities.
This means keeping our oncorporate responsibility CR matters, and exercises oversight people safe by providing them with a work inthis area, whilst the CEO and leadership team are responsible environment that is hazard-free, wherever forsetting day to day policies and keeping our performance possible, andthenecessary training and underreview.
support to enable them to perform their day today duties without getting hurt.
It also Over the years, Elementis has participated in various programmes means managing our businesses to high to demonstrate its commitment to corporate responsibility and standards and in compliance of applicable sustainability issues.
These have included the following: laws and regulations, as well as the impact thatour activities can have on the environment Achieving membership of the FTSE4Good index, a leading global both globally andlocally.
responsible investment index, since September 2009.
Supporting the principles of the UN Global Compact on human Our responsibilities can be summarised as: rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
Managing our facilities to standards established by globally People.
recognised institutions such as the National Fire Protection Safety.
Association, International Society of Automation and American Environment.
Elementis is also an active member in several Supply chain.
associations such as the California Construction and Industrial Product stewardship.
Materials Association, the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents and is a business member of the European Chemical Industry Council.
Achieving accreditation certi cates: of our 18 operating facilities, nine have achieved ISO 9001 quality management certi cation, vehave achieved ISO 14001 environmental management certi cation, three have achieved OHSAS 18001 safety management certi cation and our other sites are managed tosimilarly high standards.
Performing at the highest levels: our principal chromium facility inCastle Hayne, North Carolina, is accredited under the STAR programme, which is the highest recognition level under OSHAs voluntary protection programme that recognises employees and employers who have achieved exemplary occupational safety andhealth.
Participating since 2013 in the Carbon Disclosure Programme and winning an award in 2014 for the biggest improvement in disclosure rating.
Achieving certi cation under Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO for our organoclay range of products in 2014 and ourBentone gels product range in 2016, as well as Good Manufacturing Practice 2012 certi cation in 2014 from the European Federation for Cosmetics Ingredients.
The primary bene ciary of these certi cations is our Personal Care sector asitdemonstrates our commitment to quality, safety, sustainability and innovation for the personal care industry.
Participating in the EcoVadis sustainable supply management programme and achieving silver recognition in 2014.
Participating in other sustainable initiatives, such as the Repasackprogramme, which recycles and reuses bags for packaging products.
The above is not an exhaustive list of achievements but an indication of the activity that takes place routinely.
There are many more successes and achievements on both a team and individual level that frequently go unnoticed or unreported which Elementis can be proud of.
Some examples of these are given later.
22 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information People To help employees understand and adopt these values, principles Our greatest asset is without doubt our employees.
and standards in their daily work life, information and training Theirdedication and hard work is what drives our success isprovided, supported by comprehensive whistleblowing atalllevels within the organisation.
Despite being spread across procedures and an anti-retaliation policy.
All new employees are threeregions 39 per cent in the Americas, 26 per cent in required to undertake training on the Code and refresher training Europeand35per cent in Asia, our employees identify with isgiven to all employees periodically.
The Board and leadership asingle setofcorporate values which are to be innovative, team consider the Code to be critical to the Groups continuing successful, responsible andleaders in the sectors in which success and in how it meets its corporate responsibilities.
Tofoster our performance and success culture, theleadership team provides the example for others to follow The Code is translated into six languages and supported with andwehave policies and guidance that encourage and support interactive online training to help employees stay up to date positive behaviours.
Our values and standards of business conduct and ethics Underpinning our Code is a compliance training programme.
The Elementis Code of Conduct the Code sets out our core values During the year, the CEO established a cross functional and the standards of conduct expected of everyone who works for ElementisCompliance Team ECT that meets on a quarterly Elementis in any of its worldwide operations.
Our values are: basisto consider compliance training needs and improvements, assigntraining courses to all and selected groups of employees Being a responsible employer.
and monitor training completion rates.
The ECT considers possibleimprovements and makes recommendations on Having high levels of concern for the health and safety of the identifying andmitigating compliance risks for the Company.
Groups employees, contractors, customers, neighbours and TheECT reportstothe General Counsel and Chief Compliance thegeneral public.
Examples oftraining courses in 2016 include: global health Caring about the environment and communities in which the and safety, information security, preventing sexual harassment Group operates, including making a commitment to promote andtrade secrets.
andadopt sustainable and responsible business policies and practices.
Diversity Maintaining high standards in business conduct and ethics, We are fully committed to equality of opportunity and our policy including complying with all applicable laws and regulations.
ofnon-discrimination applies throughout the Group and to Desiring to innovate and create new products and technologies allaspectsof our employment practices.
A summary of our to support growth in the Company and develop solutions for employment policies appears on page 60 of the Directors report.
ourcustomers to improve the performance of their products Further information about what the Board is doing on gender andprocesses.
diversity at Board and below Board level is set out in the Corporate governance report on page 33.
The Code is based around five core principles of conduct and itisexpected that everyone to whom this code applies will: Our total workforce including contractors and temporary workers numbers around 1,400 and the table below shows the breakdown Behave with Honesty and Integrity.
by gender diversity for different managerial groups.
Follow the Letter and Spirit of the Law.
Gender diversity statistics at 31 December 2016 Treat each other Fairly.
Male Female Act in the best interests of Elementis.
All employees 976 75.9% 310 24.1% Protect Elementiss property and documents.
Management 218 79.0% 58 21.0% Executive Under each principle are more detailed provisions to guide management 208 78.5% 57 21.5% employees on the behaviour and standards that are expected Senior manager 22 95.7% 1 4.3% ofthem.
The areas covered include the following: fair dealing, con dentiality and privacy, record keeping, communications, Board 6 66.7% 3 33.3% tradepractices and anti-trust compliance, insider trading and fair fide ned as being within the four tiers below Board level as fide ned under the prescribed regulations disclosure, bribery and other corrupt practices, product liability, as at 1 March 2017 international business dealings, political contributions and activities, maintaining a safe, healthy and af rmative workplace, equal opportunities, anti-harassment, offensive materials, alcohol We consider diversity of our people, in all its aspects, an important and drugs, con icts of interest, gifts and hospitality, theft and element in the well-functioning of our business.
Appointments shall misuse of Company assets, corporate opportunities, intellectual always be made on merit and we seek to leverage the bene ts of property, and network use, integrity and security.
awide and diverse talent pool.
Staff turnover across the Group for 2016 was 6.3 per cent 2015: 5.4 per cent.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 23 Corporate responsibility report continued Human rights Health, Safety and Environment We support the statements in the Universal Declaration of HumanRights, as well as the International Labour Organizations Commitment and strategy Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, We are committed to providing a healthy and safe workplace for thelatter being freedom of association and the effective recognition employees, contractors and site visitors, and minimising our impact of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of forced or on the environment from our operations.
compulsory labour, the abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Beyond preventing environmental incidents and pollution, and Wealso support the principles of the UN Global Compact which managing emissions, discharges and waste, we have a shared includes those on fundamental human rights.
We prohibit the responsibility globally for conserving natural resources, identifying useof child and forced labour and are committed to the principles initiatives to lessen the effects on biodiversity and reducing of freedom of association, equality of treatment and nongreenhouse gas emissions.
Over 40 per cent of our employees are union members and just under 30 per cent are subject to collective This commitment re ects a culture within Elementis that is ethical bargaining agreements.
and respects the expectations of the communities in which we operate, as well as the regulatory agencies, to comply with all Business practices are in place with our contractors, customers applicable laws and regulations.
We recognise the importance and suppliers in relation to anti-corruption, privacy and safety ofenvironmental, social and governance ESG expectations of matters.
ourexternal stakeholders and aim to meet these too.
Modern slavery Leadership In many countries, modern slavery e. g. forced or child labour is The CEO is responsible for health, safety and environment HSE acrime and a violation of fundamental human rights.
Reporting directly to the CEO, the VP Global HSE policy is to prohibit the use of modern slavery in all its forms in our works closely with his HSE team and operations management on business activities and we have taken the following steps to ensure HSE policy, planning, performance, hazard and risk assessment, the absence of modern slavery practices from our Company and training, improvement and investment.
An illustration of our HSE supply chain: management system is shown below.
Recruitment and employment policies make it clear that any formof modern slavery is prohibited and will not be tolerated, andincorporate appropriate checks and vetting when taking onnew employees.
Documented Employee policies and training Our Purchasing Code of Practice was updated last year to procedures incorporate additional requirements to ensure compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
These include notifying suppliers Emergency Hazard and risk planning of our policy, carrying out risk assessments on suppliers and assessments and response supplier audits on a periodical basis.
Our HSE The required Modern Slavery Act compliance statement will be management Communication of safety and Incident published on our corporate website later in the year.
programmes investigation environmental matters conform to international standards Performance Management reports of change External Internal audits audits 24 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Health and safety principles As well as the total number of recordable incidents, we use the We have a dedicated and experienced team to lead our safety total recordable incident rate TRIR as a performance indicator.
Recognised and generally accepted good The TRIR in 2016 was 1.03 per 200,000 hours worked 2015: 0.77. engineeringpractices are followed in line with industry standards.
The accompanying chart shows that our performance has been Site management supported by our Group HSE staff continually maintained at around one recordable incident per 200,000 hours.
striveto create an injury free work environment by promoting Within the chemical industry, this is very similar to companies that safebehaviours and developing a culture where safety is not are generally viewed as having industry best safety performance compromised by operational pressures.
Internal and external based on data for the American Chemistry Council ACC audits are conducted to verify that standards are being met and Responsible Care RC members who achieved 0.76 in 2015, the toidentify opportunities for improvement.
This performance is signi cantly better than the general chemical industry in the US 2.1 in 2015, the latest data Safety performance available from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
That said, our We use recordable incidents as our principal measure of safety goal is zero incidents.
Recordable incidents as fide ned by the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration are work related Recordable incident rate injuries and illnesses that require medical treatment beyond first Recordable incidents per 200,000 hours worked aid, work restrictions to normal duties or time away from work.
Tomonitor performance and trends among more serious injuries 3 and illnesses, we also record lost time accidents LTA that require greater than three days away from work not including the day US chemical industry ofincident.
2 We are pleased to report that there were no fatalities to employees or contractors working at our sites during 2016 2015: zero.
Elementis 1 There were 13 recordable incidents across the Group in 2016 2015: ten.
Of those recordable incidents five required days ACC RC awayfrom work greater than three days 2015: two.
The most 0 concerning incident occurred during a routine operation when 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 twoemployees received acid burns whilst of oading sulphuric acidfrom a railcar.
The Board, CEO and leadership team took this incident veryseriously and arranged an all employee call to review Contractor safety learningsfrom the incident and agreed actions to prevent a repeat.
Our commitment to safety includes contractor safety.
Contractor In addition, theCEO has taken action to address the increasing selection and retention takes account of their safety performance.
This includes making the Global HSE function report directly When on site, following induction, contractors are required to to him and increasing the level of HSE leadership and visibility at comply with the same safety practices and procedures expected both the leadership team and throughout the Group.
As a result, we are con dent that contractors experience a similar high level of safety to our own employees.
During 2016, three of our manufacturing locations achieved In2016, there was one recordable injury suffered by a contractor signi cant safety performance milestones and were presented with across all manufacturing locations 2015: two.
the Elementis Diamond Award for safety excellence.
The sites and the milestone in which they achieved are: Hectorite mine for exceeding 25 years without a recordableaccident requiring time away from work.
Corpus Christi for exceeding 13 years without a recordableincident.
Changxing for exceeding 14 years without a recordableincident.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 25 Corporate responsibility report continued Health and safety initiatives Employees are encouraged to report safety near misses and During 2016, our leadership team continued to focus on both environmental leaks and spills.
The bene t is that these reports occupational health and safety and process safety improvements.
arerecognised as warnings of the potential for more serious A major initiative in 2016 was the introduction of the DuPont incidents in slightly different circumstances.
The number of reports TakeTwofor Safety programme encouraging employees to submitted shows widespread commitment and understanding of stopand think in a structured way about potential hazards before this concept by our employees.
In addition, our leadership team starting a task.
Training is given in local languages appropriate to routinely communicate current safety concerns and reinforces the location of the site.
commitment to safety by a variety of means such as issuing safetyalert bulletins based on learning from incidents, and safety Our process safety programmes include process hazard analyses stand-downs where time out is taken to discuss safety with PHA on installations handling highly hazardous chemicals and management.
Company-wide teleconference calls are held during Pre-Startup Safety Reviews PSSR before commissioning key the year to discuss safety messages from the CEO and Vice equipment.
Mechanical integrity inspections are conducted as President of Global HSE.
apredictive and preventative exercise to reduce the likelihood ofincidents.
Environmental impact Our activities are closely regulated via robust environmental As in previous years, there are corporate and site-speci c permits, which Elementis complies with.
objectives established with the management of each manufacturing location.
Corporate objectives address general We record and categorise environmental incidents into tiers based opportunities to improve performance, based for example on on the severity or actions taken by regulatory authorities.
Tier 3 industry best practice, or learnings from incidents across the incidents are those that have an impact on the environment and Group.
Site-speci c objectives re ect the particular needs at each require reporting to an external authority and where enforcement location, as well as to align practices with corporate objectives.
Tier 2 incidents have a minor impact and require noti cation but are likely to result in minimal or no action by the A further initiative in 2016 was the development of key performance authorities.
Tier 1 incidents require no external reporting and metrics made up of leading indicators.
By tracking performance arerecorded internally and investigated so that continual onactivities such as near miss reporting, management of change, improvements can be made to reduce the likelihood of future PHA and audits, the aim is to identify vulnerabilities that could lead Tier2and Tier 3incidents.
Standard lagging indicators such as the TRIR are still reported to show the effectiveness of safety management.
In 2016, we maintained a high level of environmental performance.
There were no Tier 3 or Tier 2 incidents 2015: zero Tier 3: Safety and environmental incident management zeroTier2.
We remain well prepared to manage safety and environmental incidents in a timely and resilient way should the need arise.
Biodiversity Our policy is that biodiversity, the variety and variability of life, Formal procedures for incident reporting, emergency response should be protected insofar as it is reasonably practicable by andinvestigation are in place.
In the event of a serious incident reducing or avoiding the impact on, and potential for damage to, details will be communicated rapidly to emergency services and sensitive species, habitats and ecosystems as a direct or indirect senior management.
Operations teams are trained to ensure result of our operations or activities.
safeevacuation and plant shut down.
Sites handling hazardous materials have employees trained to deal with leaks and Biodiversity surveys are conducted at all of our 18 global facilities environmental spills, and arrangements are in place to access the which help to frame our actions.
These plans are based on site services of external contractors with expertise in dealing with larger level impact assessments and ensure that biodiversity releases.
Corporate and local Business Continuity Plans have been considerations are taken into account.
in place since 2006 and these are rehearsed at site and corporate level as a commitment for timely and effective business recovery in Our membership of RSPO means Elementis is committed to the event of a major accident or environmental incident.
protecting and conserving the rich biodiversity found in tropical palm forests by using palm oil sourced from sustainable palm On a day-to-day basis, incident reporting continues to be a key plantations that are responsible and responsive to the issues management tool for reporting, investigating and acting on unsafe ofsoildegradation, biodiversity, local peoples and land rights.
conditions and behaviours, and environmental spills and releases.
Other examples of our efforts and speci c action plans implemented to enhance biodiversity can be found on our website.
Environmental performance We monitor key environmental statistics for each manufacturing facility.
Energy and water consumption, air emissions, ef uent discharges and solid waste disposal will all vary according to production output which is a function of demand as well as changes in fuel and production processes.
However, they are alsoaffected by changes in product mix and plant ef ciencies related tooperational requirements, and special events planned and unplanned.
26 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information As is standard practice in the chemical industry, emission values Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. may be calculated from energy use or based on representative Our GHG emissions reporting process was audited by sampling, as well as continuous monitoring.
The audit report found the procedures to be appropriate and the data We continue to work proactively to improve environmental collection and conversion process to be robust and supportable.
Performance during 2016 is shown in the followingsections.
The principal GHG due to operations at Elementis locations is carbon dioxide from energy use.
These GHG emissions are Energy consumption calculated from energy purchased.
Energy units are converted We consume energy from several sources electricity, steam, intocarbon dioxide equivalent CO e using of cial data provided 2 natural gas, LPG, biomass and oil at manufacturing sites, by the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs principalof ces and laboratories.
DEFRA data was used for UK generated electricity.
energy consumption is converted into consistent energy units, Emission factors associated with non-UK electricity consumption Gigajoules GJ.
in2016 were derived from International Energy Agency IEA data.
These factors vary signi cantly between countries and from year Energy consumption reduced in 2016 as shown in Table 1 below.
toyear depending on the fuel mix for generation and proportion of imported electricity.
How we are improving energy ef ciency We look for opportunities to improve our energy ef ciency as it There are also GHG emissions from chemical reactions in lowers cost and reduces our impact on the environment.
Examples production processes, waste water treatment and carbon dioxide of initiatives include the following: used for process cooling.
GHG emissions are reported for all 18manufacturing sites, the principal of ces and laboratories, The Delden facility in the Netherlands completed the final year aswellas a site undergoing closure procedures in Eaglescliffe, ofa four year energy ef ciency initiative.
We replaced the nitrogen UK.
Anumber of much smaller sales of ces have been excluded compressor unit and invested in a boiler plant room tobring because the level of CO e emissions was deemed not to make a 2 substantial energy savings projected to be over 10,000GJ material contribution to the total.
We provide two intensity ratios: tonnes CO e per tonne of The building optimisation project at SciPark in East Windsor, 2 production and tonnes CO e per kWh of energy consumed.
NewJersey, which comprises a technical centre and 2 Overaperiod of years both of these indicators should give an management headquarters, is achieving 11 per cent savings indication of energy ef ciency improvements including cleaner ongas consumption and 10 per cent on electricity consumption fuelsconsumed.
Note that the intensity ratios are subject to since the programme was started.
variations due to changes in the mix of products manufactured, volumes and energy ef ciency improvements.
Greenhouse gas emissions Global warming and climate change are global concerns that GHG emissions are shown in Table 2 below.
areaffected by greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
We report GHGemissions for our global operations as Scope 1 and Scope 2 according to the requirements of The Companies Act 2006 Table 1: Energy consumption 2016 2015 2014 Absolute Per tonne of Absolute Per tonne of Absolute Per tonne of 000s production 000s production 000s production Energy consumed GJ 4,794 12.5 4,864 12.7 5,046 12.1 For reference: one GJ 277.7778 kWh Table 2: Greenhouse gas emissions Current reporting Prior year for Base year for period comparison comparison 2016 2015 2013 Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities tonnes CO e 194,687 208,610 221,076 2 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use tonnes CO e 88,365 78,750 89,500 2 Total Scope 1 & 2 tonnes CO e 283,052 287,360 310,576 2 Intensity ratio: tonnes CO e tonne production 0.74 0.75 0.77 2 Supplementary intensity ratio: kg CO e kWh energy consumed 0.26 0.26 0.27 2 Out of Scope: Biofuel tonnes CO e 7,904 3,408 0 2 Note: CO e values were derived using DEFRA and IEA published factors 2 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 27 Corporate responsibility report continued In this fourth year of GHG emissions reporting, table 2 shows Water consumption thatthe total Scope 1 and 2 CO e emissions in 2016 have reduced Water scarcity is a global issue.
We operate mostly in locations 2 by 9 per cent since the base year.
In part the total is affected where this is not an immediate issue, nevertheless, we recognise bychanges in production volumes and product mix.
However, the need to conserve water and keep abreast of water supply risks.
asigni cant and sustainable improvement was achieved in 2015 Water consumption is minimised where possible by treatment and when the organoclay sites in China at Changxing and Anji switched recycling.
Examples of this are water recycled from the residue from using coal to biomass, comprised of renewable organic disposal areas at the Castle Hayne chromium facility and a closed material bamboo and wood pellets, as an energy source.
loop cooling system installed to the spray driers at the Specialty Following guidance from DEFRA, CO emissions from biofuel use Products site at Newberry Springs, California.
2 are excluded from the Scope 1 total to balance the CO absorbed 2 by fast growing bioenergy sources during their growth.
For Water consumption is related to production output, product mix, completeness these CO emissions are shown as out of scope plant utilisation and cleaning activities.
The net result in 2016 shows 2 emissions.
However, a CO e allowance is included in the Scope 1 a steady reduction.
2 total to account for the small amount of methane and nitrous oxide GHG emissions, which are not absorbed during growth.
Solid and liquid waste As part of our commitment to the environment, we seek to reduce Elsewhere we continue to use cleaner energy sources such as the quantity of all types of waste.
The first concern is to reduce natural gas, which represented 96 per cent of energy required theamount of waste that is classed as hazardous.
non-hazardous waste is minimised and recycled.
Non-hazardous waste is predominantly the inert residue from the chromate kiln Other emissions to air operations, which is deposited in permitted impoundments and Emissions of the oxides of sulphur and nitrogen, and volatile licenced land ll sites adjacent to the manufacturing facilities.
organic compounds VOCs, arising from our operations are controlled to comply with regulatory permits.
As the volumes are Hazardous waste increased in 2016 largely due to chromite kiln not considered to be signi cant, they are not reported separately brick disposal.
Non-hazardous waste reduced slightly in 2016. here but will be available on our corporate website.
Any emission Thesolid waste arising in 2016 is considered to be within the toair above regulatory permitted levels would normally be reported normal variability of operations and maintenance activities.
Discharges to water Innovation and sustainability Our production activity generates process ef uent that is routinely Our global R&D efforts continue to maintain focus on activity that tested to ensure that the quality meets strict permit limits prior supports and contributes to a more sustainable future.
Typical analysis includes chemical and biological committed to: oxygen demand and total suspended solids.
The volumes of thesedischarges are not considered to be signi cant and are Reducing the use of materials that contribute to notreported here but will be available on our corporate website.
However, any discharge to water above regulatory permitted Expanding our use of bio-based materials in our products.
levelswould be reported as an environmental incident.
Facilitating the global migration of decorative coatings from solvent-based systems to aqueous ones.
Table 3: Water consumption 2016 2015 2014 Absolute Per tonne of Absolute Per tonne of Absolute Per tonne of Water consumption 000s production 000s production 000s production 3 Water consumed m 1,745 6.67 1,778 6.93 1,811 7.08 Table 4: Waste disposal 2016 2015 2014 Per 1,000 Per 1,000 Per 1'000 Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of Waste disposal 000s production 000s production 000s production Hazardous waste disposed tonnes 1.54 5.90 0.94 3.68 0.79 3.09 Non-hazardous waste disposed tonnes 95 363 100 391 104 405 28 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Customers, suppliers, supply chain and quality Within this context, we regularly review the risks of the chemicals During 2016 we continued to participate in trade shows and we manufacture, recommend risk management where appropriate, industry forums, as well as conducting workshops, training monitor changes in regulations, and make health, safety, and seminars and hosting collaborative laboratory sessions to compliance information available to customers, government workwith customers on a one on one basis.
We continue authorities and the public.
toberesponsive to questions from our customers on social responsibilityand environmental awareness programmes.
Notable product stewardship accomplishments during 2016 werethe continued successful implementation of the Globally We continue to buy only RSPO certi ed quaternary amines for all Harmonised System GHS standard around the world, the ofour Personal Care sector requirements and we continually strive expansion of the number of our products and manufacturing sites to maximise the use of natural products.
in the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO programme, and the on time completion of the US EPA Chemical Data In our Specialty Products portfolio 11 of our global facilities Reporting CDR programme.
85 per cent have achieved ISO 9001 certi cations spanning theUS, Europe and Asia.
Another example of our commitment EU REACh, as well as the new REACh programmes in China, toquality is the use of Statistical Quality Control tools to support Korea and Taiwan, continue to be managed to provide the highest continual quality improvement and increase operating ef ciencies, levels of product safety and compliance whilst assuring our with the added bene t of helping cost management initiatives.
products areavailable for use by our global business partners.
Product stewardship We continue to invest in the scienti c and regulatory expertise We strive to provide innovative products that create value for needed to meet the market demands for safer and more ourcustomers and that are safe for people and the environment sustainable products in an environment of ever increasing whenused for their intended purpose.
An integral part of this numberand complexity of chemical regulations.
process isour commitment to excellence in product safety and global compliance and these core values drive our global Product Approval of Strategic report Stewardship programme.
The Strategic report comprises the following sections: Chairmans statement, CEOs overview, Business model, Finance report To support the highest levels of product safety and regulatory incorporating Key performance indicators and the Risk compliance we have comprehensive product safety and product management report and Corporate responsibility report which stewardship processes in place to ensure the following: incorporates information relating to greenhouse gas emissions required to be included in the Directors report.
The Strategic The hazards of our products are fully understood and report was approved by the Board and has been signed on its communicated to our customers.
behalf by: Any risks are managed to minimise potential impacts to people and the environment.
Our products are sold in compliance with all applicable local and Ralph Hewins country laws and regulations.
CFO 1 March 2017 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 29
