COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility encompasses a broad range of philosophies, Priorities goals How do we manage it?
No significant adverse impact to the Establish and regularly review Implement initiatives to improve our Reviewed Group Health, Safety Focus on the four key pillars of our current local environment and commitment Group Environmental strategy energy efficiency, including and Environmental strategy, with health, safety and environmental strategy: Essentra considers the issues that to achieving the highest standards exploring the use of energy-saving the revised version formally approved are material to its business and seeks Identify and understand the of environmental performance technology in manufacturing by the Chief Executive Proportionate and robust management to respond to them in a manner environmental aspects and impacts systems, standards and processes appropriate to the interests of associated with our activities Develop new techniques with Updated and re-issued Group Health Continue to drive achievement of all its stakeholders.
suppliers and customers for & Safety and Group Environmental Establish Group minimum ISO 14001, ISO 50001 and OHSAS environmentally friendly products policies, to reflect new HSE strategy.
expectations for environmental 18001 accreditation for all Essentra recognises the significance The environmental policy specifically management Encourage employee participation manufacturing facilities and importance of being a responsible includes energy management as part of in developing and driving corporate citizen in the workplace, Understand current environmental the environmental management system Establish Group-wide core minimum environmental improvement marketplace, environment and community.
performance, and establish Group standards for the identification and initiatives Gained certification to OHSAS 18001 The Companys international operations expectations for improvements control of health and safety risks in Brazil, Malaysia and the Components fulfil their responsibility to record, monitor and results Gain ISO 14001 accreditation and environmental impacts site in Thailand and make publicly available the potential at all manufacturing sites Implement initiatives to reduce People impact of its activities.
In pursuing its Gained certification to ISO 14001 waste and increase recycling Gain ISO 50001 accreditation Establish clear expectations for the corporate strategy, Essentras aim is in Brazil and Turkey at all manufacturing sites HSE competency of specialist support to adopt business practices that are Gained certification to ISO 50001 staff and all employees economically, socially and environmentally in Turkey sustainable, and to promote these to Continue to drive culture and its stakeholders in order to strengthen Introduced targeted HSE employee engagement through relationships, share knowledge and Achieving the highest standards Establish and regularly review Understand current health intervention programmes employee consultation forums, encourage best practice.
of health and safety Group Health and Safety strategy and safety performance, and communication programs and Continued site consolidation and establish Group expectations HSE culture improvement plans Identify and understand the health investment in more flexible equipment, The Companys risk management for improvements and results and safety risks posed by our activities to improve energy efficiency and reduce Shared learning processes include consideration of the Encourage employee participation overall environmental impact Establish clear mechanisms potential impact of corporate responsibility Establish Group minimum in developing and driving health for both internal and external issues on Essentras performance.
expectations for the management and safety improvement initiatives benchmarking, the sharing of best The Companys investment decisions of health and safety practice and the sharing of lessons take into account appropriate evaluations Gain OHSAS 18001 accreditation learnt from incidents of the potential consequences for its at all manufacturing sites employees, customers and suppliers Targeted intervention and the environment.
Build upon established processes for providing additional assistance The Essentra Values are fundamental and targeted interventions to to the Companys adoption of the highest underperforming sites, and in standards of business ethics and integrity support of any serious or potentially that underpin its relationships with serious incidents both internal and external stakeholders.
Essentras culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability Employees Ensure the highest standards of Promote Essentra Values Continue to promote Right Continued communication of core Respond to new risks and requirements are encouraged to act fairly in their business integrity and conduct to Speak policy policies through e-Learning and reviews Establish clear policies and guidance Provide further training dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, in Essentra Group System Regular review of adherence suppliers and business partners.
Secure employee awareness Drive employee responsibility and with policies and guidance by Continued to promote compliance and engagement cultural change Group Assurance systems The Essentra Values can be found on the Investigate complaints Companys website www.
Continued to train employees in Code of Business Ethics 38 STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM Priorities goals How do we manage it?
No significant adverse impact to the Establish and regularly review Implement initiatives to improve our Reviewed Group Health, Safety Focus on the four key pillars of our current local environment and commitment Group Environmental strategy energy efficiency, including and Environmental strategy, with health, safety and environmental strategy: to achieving the highest standards exploring the use of energy-saving the revised version formally approved Identify and understand the of environmental performance technology in manufacturing by the Chief Executive Proportionate and robust management environmental aspects and impacts systems, standards and processes associated with our activities Develop new techniques with Updated and re-issued Group Health Continue to drive achievement of suppliers and customers for & Safety and Group Environmental Establish Group minimum ISO 14001, ISO 50001 and OHSAS environmentally friendly products policies, to reflect new HSE strategy.
expectations for environmental 18001 accreditation for all The environmental policy specifically management Encourage employee participation manufacturing facilities includes energy management as part of in developing and driving Understand current environmental the environmental management system Establish Group-wide core minimum environmental improvement performance, and establish Group standards for the identification and initiatives Gained certification to OHSAS 18001 expectations for improvements control of health and safety risks in Brazil, Malaysia and the Components and results Gain ISO 14001 accreditation and environmental impacts site in Thailand at all manufacturing sites Implement initiatives to reduce People Gained certification to ISO 14001 waste and increase recycling Gain ISO 50001 accreditation Establish clear expectations for the in Brazil and Turkey at all manufacturing sites HSE competency of specialist support Gained certification to ISO 50001 staff and all employees in Turkey Continue to drive culture and Introduced targeted HSE employee engagement through Achieving the highest standards Establish and regularly review Understand current health intervention programmes employee consultation forums, of health and safety Group Health and Safety strategy and safety performance, and communication programs and Continued site consolidation and establish Group expectations HSE culture improvement plans Identify and understand the health investment in more flexible equipment, for improvements and results and safety risks posed by our activities to improve energy efficiency and reduce Shared learning Encourage employee participation overall environmental impact Establish clear mechanisms Establish Group minimum in developing and driving health for both internal and external expectations for the management and safety improvement initiatives benchmarking, the sharing of best of health and safety practice and the sharing of lessons Gain OHSAS 18001 accreditation learnt from incidents at all manufacturing sites Targeted intervention Build upon established processes for providing additional assistance and targeted interventions to underperforming sites, and in support of any serious or potentially serious incidents Ensure the highest standards of Promote Essentra Values Continue to promote Right Continued communication of core Respond to new risks and requirements business integrity and conduct to Speak policy policies through e-Learning and reviews Establish clear policies and guidance Provide further training in Essentra Group System Regular review of adherence Secure employee awareness Drive employee responsibility and with policies and guidance by Continued to promote compliance and engagement cultural change Group Assurance systems Investigate complaints Continued to train employees in Code of Business Ethics 39 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Workplace After the downward trend in accident safety improvements.
This programme rates seen in 2015, performance in this identified a number of common areas of Health and safety area plateaued throughout most of 2016. potential concern across the Group and, Essentras overriding commitment in the Although there was an upturn in the as a result, a new HSE strategy was workplace continues to be the health, lost-time accident incidence rate during developed to drive improvements in safety and welfare of its employees and all October and November, encouragingly performance and culture.
This strategy those who visit the Companys operations, this was followed by no lost-time accidents initially focuses on four key pillars: as well as those who carry out work on being reported in December.
There were Proportionate and robust behalf of the Group.
The Board provides a total of 73 lost-time accidents in 2016, management systems, standards health and safety leadership and the Chief compared to 72 in 2015. and processes Executive has primary responsibility for People competence and culture setting the principal health and safety During 2016, a Group-wide back-toobjectives within which the detailed basics initiative was introduced, with a Shared learning policies operate, and for reviewing view to ensuring that a solid foundation Targeted interventions progress against those objectives.
existed on which to build future health and The Company manages occupational health by identifying key risk activities, Lost-Time Accident Incidence Rate MAT undertaking health assessments and, No.
lost time accidents per 100 employees where appropriate, implementing 1.15 health surveillance programmes.
1.10 All our principal manufacturing facilities 1.05 have achieved the Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems 1.00 OHSAS 18001 standard.
We continue 0.95 to drive OHSAS 18001 into all our manufacturing sites and, at the end of 0.90 2016, 52% of these facilities had 0.85 achieved accreditation.
0.80 We continue to use the Essentra 0.75 Environment, Safety and Health Self-Assurance Model ESHAM to assist sites in continually developing the Lost-Time Accident Incident Rate MAT Lost-Time Accident Incident Rate Trend MAT maturity of their local HSE management arrangements.
This tool has now been rolled out to all manufacturing and All Accident Incidence Rates MAT significant distribution sites except two No.
all accidents per 100 employees small manufacturing facilities and one 5.6 distribution site, which will come on board in 2017.
Steady improvements in scores 5.4 have been seen during the year but, in 5.2 line with the new HSE strategy, greater focus will be placed on this during 2017.
5.0 4.8 As part of the strategy for targeted interventions, a new programme was 4.6 introduced in the Q2 2016, where 4.4 underperforming sites and those that had significant incidents were subject 4.2 to additional scrutiny and support.
4.0 All Accident Incident Rate MAT All Accident Incident Rate Trend MAT 40 Jan-14 Jan-14 Feb-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 Apr-14 May-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Jan-15 Feb-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 Apr-15 May-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Jan-16 Feb-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Mar-16 Apr-16 Apr-16 May-16 May-16 Jun-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Aug-16 Sep-16 Sep-16 Oct-16 Oct-16 Nov-16 Nov-16 Dec-16 Dec-16 STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM Details of Essentras health and safety Essentra encourages the involvement of The gender of Essentras employees as policy and accident performance data employees in the Companys performance at 31 December 2016 was: can be viewed on the Companys website through employees share schemes.
Male Female Essentra is committed to improving Employees employee engagement and learning 4 1 Non-Executive Essentras employees are a vital resource more about the needs of its workforce.
Directors in the pursuit of operational excellence In addition to the impact of the training 2 0 and the provision of quality products and and development programmes, employee Executive Directors service to its customers.
The skills and engagement is enhanced by the 40 2 Senior Managers expertise of Essentras employees drive communication practices which have the innovation which enables the been adopted across the businesses.
5,775 2,583 All employees Company to provide added value to Essentra values highly the commitment its customers, enhance supply chain of its employees and recognises the logistics with its suppliers and reduce the importance of communication to good environmental impact of its operations.
The The Company gives full and fair Company seeks to ensure that employees considerations to employment The Company regularly reviews its are informed on matters relating to applications by disabled people.
organisational structure to ensure that their employment and on financial and In the event of employees becoming the business has the necessary personnel economic factors affecting the businesses.
disabled, every effort is made to ensure to deliver its strategic priorities.
The Company actively seeks feedback that the training, career development and ideas from employees to improve and promotion opportunities available Essentra understands the importance of its operations, and forums appropriate to disabled persons are as far as having the right people with the right skills to Essentras local businesses have been possible identical to those of now and in the future to deliver the established to allow employees to voice non-disabled employees.
exceptional service and expertise which is their views as to how the Company should the bedrock of the Companys long-term fulfil the demands of all its local and Throughout its global activities Essentra relationships with its customers.
The Companys supports human rights as set down by that service and expertise, Essentra is European Information and Consultation the United Nations Declaration and continually improving its comprehensive Forum facilitates the discussion of issues its applicable International Labour talent pool, from graduates to senior across all of its operations in the Organisation conventions.
Essentra runs a very European Union.
based in India, Indonesia and Thailand are successful graduate training programme, also accredited to SA 8000 which details which continues to expand its During 2016, the challenges which beset fundamental principles of human rights.
Essentra clearly had a negative impact on employee motivation and morale, The Groups activities are carried out in Key strategic aspects of recruitment, particularly at the sites where issues developed countries that have strong training and development are overseen arose.
The Board and GMC are committed legislation governing human rights.
or co-ordinated at a Group level, to ensure to improving communication and The Group complies fully with appropriate consistency of approach, to identify engagement as a critical success factors for legislation in the countries in which it strategic threats and opportunities, and the future development of the Company.
Essentras commitment to to open up a wider range of opportunities human rights is repeated in its Values for employees.
The Company recognises the importance and Code of Business Ethics policy.
of, and the benefits to be derived from, Essentra encourages its employees to diversity across its international operations develop and manage their own careers.
and is committed to offering equal It facilitates this by providing relevant job opportunities to all people without training and, where appropriate, aims discrimination of any form.
Essentra to fill vacancies with existing staff remunerates fairly with respect to skills, where employees are suitably qualified performance and local market conditions.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Marketplace This does not fundamentally change the certifications, and to develop and the Essentra approach to managing standardise central approval to this Essentras reputation with its customers its environmental impact, which via a Group certification programme.
and suppliers, and in the communities focuses on: where it operates, is based not only on Implementing and maintaining Essentra uses a variety of indicators to the quality of its performance, but also environmental and energy monitor environmental performance, on the integrity of its management of management systems certified but the following core impacts are the workplace and environment, and to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001, on identified for the Group as a whole: its ethical and responsible conduct in a global basis Greenhouse gas emissions from the marketplace.
The development and energy use, including electricity, Measuring and monitoring continuation of long-term business natural gas, heating fuel, transport consumption and emissions, and relationships reflects the trust placed in and travel setting targets to improve performance the Company, and such commitments Use of resources, including water are an important component in the Conducting environmental impact ongoing success of Essentra.
assessments and developing site Generation and disposal of waste management plans Essentra is continuously seeking ways to Essentras Code of Business Ethics policy Providing training to employees, improve its utilisation of natural resources.
is applicable to all its businesses around and engaging with customers and A process of continuous improvement the world.
The policy details the standards suppliers to raise environmental is applied not only to the impact of its expected by Essentra in the conduct awareness usage, but also to the measurement of its business and its relationships with and capture of key environmental data.
third parties, including free and fair Providing facilities to segregate The Group has research and development competition, plus the prohibition of and reuse or recycle waste facilities in the UK, Asia and the US to bribery and political donations, and Essentra is listed in the FTSE4Good investigate the use of renewable resources provides general guidance on honest index which is designed to measure the and recyclable biodegradable versions and fair dealings with suppliers, customers performance of companies striving to of products.
and local and national authorities.
meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards, and to facilitate The following assumptions, methodology, Essentra is committed to working with investment in those companies where definitions and data validation processes its suppliers to ensure the welfare of corporate responsibility issues are an have been used to report the Groups workers and employment conditions influencing factor in an investors key environmental performance indicators within its supply chain meet or exceed decision-making process.
The reported data complies with internationally recognised standards.
the Companies Act, for the Mandatory In the UK, Essentras sites comply with the Reporting of Greenhouse Gases.
Environment Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Boundary scope: Data from all legislation and we continue to apply the locations over which the Company Towards the end of 2016, a new health, principles of the CRC to global operations.
has operational control is collected safety and environment strategy was and measured developed to drive improvements in All our principal manufacturing facilities performance and culture.
This strategy Primary data sources: These include have achieved the Environmental initially focuses on four key pillars: billing, invoices and other systems Management Systems ISO 14001 standard.
Proportionate and robust management provided by the supplier of the energy We continue to drive ISO 14001 into all systems, standards and processes to communicate energy consumption our manufacturing sites: at the end of People competence and culture 2016, 69% of these sites had achieved Secondary data sources: These include accreditation.
Similarly, Essentra is working the Companys internal systems used Shared learning to achieve the Energy Management to record and report the above Targeted interventions Systems ISO 50001 standard across all consumption data manufacturing facilities: at the end of Internal data validation: The process 2016, 23% of these sites had achieved used to review and compare primary accreditation.
However, following a review data with secondary data.
All invoices of the ISO 50001 implementation plan, and data loggers for locations it has been decided to drop some of consuming more than 1 million Kwh 42 STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM per year are cross-checked with the During the year, changes were made to basis for Essentras success, the Company data held within the Companys own the collection and classification of waste has focused on education and enterprise, internal data capture systems statistics to provide a more comprehensive health and welfare and the environment, set of data: it is, therefore, not possible to with support driven at a local, rather than Conversion factors: The CO 2 draw direct comparisons of waste streams a corporate level.
The approach is to Emissions from Fuel Combustion in 2016 with those in 2015. support and enhance employee efforts in 2016 edition, published by the their communities through the application International Energy Agency, has been of the Companys resources.
In pursuit of used for converting gross emissions its aims within the community, Essentra Waste Intensity metric: Total carbon has developed targeted programmes emissions per m of revenue are for local communities, often involving Year ended used to calculate the Companys 31 Dec 2016 commercial sponsorship and significant intensity metric employee engagement through direct 1 General waste tonnes 6,530 involvement or secondment.
Site consolidation activities together with ongoing energy improvement 2 23,020 Factory waste tonnes Ethics initiatives have led to a decreased use of energy across the Group, as measured Incinerated waste tonnes 1,704 Essentras culture is one of openness, using total carbon emissions per million integrity and accountability.
Employees 3 revenue as the normalisation criteria.
Hazardous special waste are required to act fairly in their dealings 726 tonnes with fellow colleagues, suppliers, customers and business partners.
All employees 1 Sent to landfill 2 Tonnes of CO e gross undertake training in the Companys Code Sent to recycling 2 3 Sent to special disposal of Business Ethics policy which is updated Year Year % annually.
In addition, all employees are ended ended change Given the diversity and scale of Essentras required to review and confirm their 31 Dec 31 Dec from international operations, the use of energy acceptance of critical Group policies, with 2015 2016 2015 and raw materials has both environmental the majority of employees being required 11,543 10,479 -9.2% Scope 1 and commercial importance.
Where to review and accept all of the Groups 1 Scope 2 104,820 95,748 -8.7% possible, and financially viable, raw policies.
Essentra operates a confidential materials and energy from renewable whistleblowing policy called Right to Total gross 116,363 106,228 -8.7% resources are utilised to limit environmental emissions Speak, with an external call centre which impact, commercial risk and costs.
Local enables all Group employees to raise Total carbon management drives environmental any concerns.
104.95 96.23 -8.3% emissions per performance in accordance with Group m revenue policy copies of which can be found Essentra adopts a zero tolerance approach 1 on the Companys website and Emissions from overseas electricity are in CO only to bribery and corruption, which extends 2 local legislation.
to all business dealings and transactions Similarly reductions have been seen in which the Company is involved.
This Community in water consumption, as measured using includes prohibiting political donations, volume consumed per million revenue offering or receiving inappropriate gifts Essentras commitment to being a as the normalisation criteria.
responsible corporate citizen extends to support for appropriate non-political and non-sectarian projects across a range Water of organisations and charities.
Regardless of regional or national boundaries, the Year Year % ended ended change Company aims to support the creation 31 Dec 31 Dec from of prosperous, educated, sustainable 2015 2016 2015 and healthy communities in the countries 3 and cultures in which it operates.
In its m per million 299.5 286.1 -4.5% revenue attempts to bring benefits back to those communities whose support provides a 43
