Our people Our aim is to provide a great place to work for all colleagues and we continue to invest in our people as this is fundamental to our success.
2016 in summary Its our people that make us successful.
They deliver an excellent customer experience and are the foundation of our growth.
This has been a great year for the Group as we have invested and delivered some significant initiatives from our People Agenda including: Implementation of a new Pay and Reward Framework across the business Improvements to our Performance Management processes Building the skills and competencies we want to see in all our leaders Investment and development of our internal talent The maturity of our first employee sharesave scheme 15 year anniversary celebrations Our People and Culture The Group employs 1,557 people across three offices in Reigate, Manchester and Glasgow.
We believe the key to This has been a great year our success is not just what we do but the way we do it.
The quality and commitment of everyone who works at esure for the Group as we have Group is the key to making us successful.
To achieve this, esure Groups people strategy is built upon a competitive invested and delivered some reward and benefits package, a high level of colleague significant initiatives from engagement, opportunities to grow and develop and excellent internal communications.
Its important our colleagues are rewarded both fairly Helen Taylor HR & Professional and competitively and that our structure and progression opportunities are transparent and easy to understand.
Services Director Financially, the Group is committed to rewarding our colleagues for the value that they bring to the Group.
Whilst we have always adopted the Government National Minimum and Living Wage, we are now furthering our commitment to colleagues by supporting the Living Wage Foundation and from 2017 we pay the Voluntary Living Wage across all areas of our business.
We aim to offer fair and equitable pay increases for everyone based upon an individuals contribution to the business which promotes progression through the pay ranges.
Colleagues in our customer facing areas and a small number of head office functions now also benefit from a formal pay progression scheme which allows them the opportunity to accelerate through the pay ranges.
28 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials Colleagues 'Our culture is to engage with our colleagues and put the customer at the heart of everything we do.
We focus on delivering excellent service through listening to our customers, responding to their needs, getting it right first time, keeping our promises and with timely customer communications.
If we get all of this right it will be great for our customers and will drive efficiency. '
David Pitt Chief Operating Officer In addition, and following an extensive market review, we The Group looks to recognise colleagues who have shown also invested a further 1.7m into our reward structure and a commitment to being part of the esure Group.
In 2015 implemented a new Pay and Reward Framework across all we are proud to say that 70 colleagues celebrated their areas of our business.
This included increasing the salaries 15 year anniversary with us which was acknowledged with of our new starters in customer facing teams: realignment a special gift from the CEO.
In addition we had 48 colleagues of variable pay to ensure junior colleagues have increased celebrating their 10 year anniversary with the Group.
To fixed pay and new customer focused incentive schemes.
mark this special occasion the Executive Team hosted a number of 10 year anniversary evening dinners across We have further improved the range of benefits offered our locations.
to colleagues this year by increasing our basic holiday entitlement for over 800 colleagues and providing an Engagement improved wellbeing offering which includes the opportunity We ran our second colleague engagement survey this to join a health cash plan and free flu vaccinations.
This year, partnering again with Willis Towers Watson.
We supplements the wide range of benefits we already offer maintained an excellent response rate of 91%, meaning colleagues including profit share, a voluntary benefits the results contained in the survey really do reflect the views platform, salary sacrifice schemes including childcare, of the majority of colleagues.
Our overall engagement score cycle to work, car parking and computers, season tickets was 65% which was lower than our first survey.
However, loans, long service awards for colleagues who have been this was not unexpected given some of the operational with the Group for 10 and 15 years and discounts on Group challenges colleagues faced during the first six months of insurance products.
the year when call volumes were particularly high.
We were really pleased with the customer focused culture the survey We also operate an esure Group sharesave plan enabling demonstrated with 85% of colleagues believing they can colleagues to invest in the business through share ownership positively impact our customers experience.
In addition a at 80% of market value.
The first scheme we launched back fantastic 93% of our colleagues understand how their job in 2013 matured in November 2016.
Colleagues had the contributes to our business goals.
Results were shared option to purchase esure Group shares and become a face to face with all colleagues and a number of local shareholder in the Group, sell their shares or take their action plans have been developed which included refreshed savings back.
Over 69% of colleagues 283 of the 408 offices in Manchester and Glasgow to improve the working colleagues chose to purchase shares at the option price environment.
At a Business wide level it is important that we and become a shareholder in the esure Group demonstrating maintain a focus on engagement and action planning.
their commitment to our Business.
Our annual sharesave schemes are popular with colleagues and we continue to maintain a high take up.
In 2016, 507 colleagues invested in this scheme, which was a 50% increase on the number of applicants in 2015.
This was a fantastic achievement which again demonstrates colleagues commitment to working at esure.
This year also saw the vesting of the free shares awarded to colleagues back in 2013 in recognition of us becoming a plc.
Again a high number 30% of colleagues decided to keep their shares, becoming shareholders.
Class of 2016, Rising Stars with CEO, Stuart Vann esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 29 Our people continued It's important our colleagues are rewarded both fairly and competitively and that our structure and progression opportunities are transparent and easy to understand.
Regular recognition underpins the esure Group and we look to recognise colleagues for going the extra mile in a variety of ways.
This includes everything from a gift for great customer feedback from the CEO to dinners for high performing colleagues and the recently established annual CEO awards.
The Group encourage all colleagues to enjoy work and get involved in team-based activities.
This year there have been a number of celebrations for colleagues to be involved in, including the Olympics celebrations and our very own Road to Rio challenges whereby colleagues were encouraged to run, ride, walk, row, skip during the three weeks of the Olympics to make our way to Rio thats just 5,778 miles away!
In addition, we have our now infamous Christmas quiz where colleagues can win substantial prizes such as ipads and flat screen televisions.
Our training and development In our continued commitment to grow and develop colleagues, we have implemented a number of key To ensure this continues, we remain focused on two initiatives this year, including a revised performance strategic areas of improvement which underpin our management framework which will result in a more business plan: transparent and consistent approach across the Business.
The approach will revolve around evaluating colleagues Communicating Better improving the consistency overall, rounded performance throughout the whole of the of communications across the business.
performance year, considering not only what a colleague Leading Better investing in all leaders across the achieves, but also how they achieve this.
Group to build the skills and competencies we would like to see in all our leaders.
In addition to the training all colleagues receive in order to excel in their roles, our Chief Executive Officer sponsors The annual colleague engagement survey is just one two Talent programmes Rising Stars and Future Leaders.
mechanism whereby colleagues can provide the senior Both programmes aimed at customer-facing colleagues management team with feedback.
Annual face-to-face and middle managers respectively provide the colleague briefings to share Company news are hosted by opportunity for colleagues to learn from senior leaders the Executive team and take place across all our locations.
within the business, develop new skills, identify career This is further supported by twice yearly Ask the Exec opportunities and helps esure Group strengthen its talent Q&As and a bi-monthly CEO Business Update pool, capability and succession plans.
From an external talent perspective, we were asked The Employee Consultation Group 'ECG' is another by the Association of British Insurers ABI to sponsor forum to understand colleague views and opinions and a female leader on their Future Leaders Programme.
The provide a mechanism for feedback to the Executive Team.
programme which commences in January 2017 and lasts The Group meets regularly and during 2016 four committee for 12 months was created in consultation with insurers meetings were held.
Colleagues have the opportunity to to complement and add to the development pathways of raise ideas or ask questions via a dedicated section on promising senior leaders.
We are delighted to support such eserve the Company intranet site or via elected colleague initiatives to help development across the industry.
representatives from Reigate, Manchester and Glasgow.
Around 50 new questions and ideas across the three locations ranging from catering facilities, ideas on improving communications across locations and requests for new equipment to do the job such as printers have been raised and responses published on the dedicated ECG intranet pages.
30 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials Following our engagement survey results, a key area of During 2016 colleagues across our locations raised focus this year and next is developing the core competencies a fantastic total in the region of 33,000 in charitable of our leaders.
There are a number of key initiatives which donations.
In addition to monetary donations, the Group have been implemented to support that development has also supported a number of charities in more tangible journey including: ways including: Launch of the leadership framework which will allow us Our Reigate office has a long standing relationship with to establish a benchmark for what good leadership looks Surrey Fire Brigade as we sponsor its Safe Drive, Stay like at esure Group.
Alive campaign aimed at preventing young drivers from A Management Excellence programme aimed at our team being involved in traffic accidents.
We have supported leader population to provide development on core this programme for 11 years now and we are proud to be management basics.
a part of an initiative that sees thousands of 1618 year A series of communication development sessions to olds across Surrey educated about safe driving.
leaders to improve communication effectiveness.
At our Glasgow office, for the 12th year in a row, colleagues put together Christmas lunch boxes for the We are extremely proud that one of our colleagues from local Loaves and Fishes charity who provide essential our Personal Injury team within Claims has been awarded food items to families in the Glasgow and surrounding the coveted John Smith Trophy by the Chartered Insurance area.
The charity has said that this year requests have Institute 'CII'.
The CII is the world's largest professional reached an all-time high and our donations make a huge body for the insurance and financial planning professions difference to those less fortunate than ourselves.
and it awards the John Smith Trophy each year to the At our Manchester office, colleagues supported the Royal student who obtains the best results for the Diploma Manchester Childrens Hospital Ward 84 Summer Party.
This was achieved by sending volunteers to assist on the day, which enabled the parents to spend more time with In 2017 we will also be focusing on introducing their children.
We also collected boxes full of toys for the apprenticeships to allow us to develop colleagues as well as children which we put into a raffle to raise funds to ensuring we continue to build technical competence within support forthcoming events.
We recognise that investing in a community is not just Community and charity involvement about providing employment opportunities and we have We have further invested in the great charity work we worked hard to support the communities where we are have always undertaken in the community by establishing based.
A further example of this is in Glasgow where we a Community Committee in each of our three locations.
This have been working in partnership with Developing Young enables each office to support the communities and local Workforce Glasgow to give the opportunity to students from charities that are important to their particular location in schools and higher education, who have an interest in the addition to national charities such as the NSPCC, Sport Relief financial sector to visit the Group and learn more about our and Cancer Research.
Over the past 12 months each location Business through their Finance & Business Services Insight has undertaken a wide range of fund raising activities programme.
The visits consist of groups of up to 15 people throughout the year, everything from dress down days, fun from across the education spectrum e. g. school, college and days, cake sales, charity boat races and sponsored runs.
university, and cover a range of information including a tour of the business environment, an overview of the Group, potential career information and opportunities.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 31
