COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Corporate & Social Responsibility The group is diverse and operates through a In 2016 we continued to run various training DMGTs Early Careers Leadership large number of businesses in many locations.
and development interventions: Programme: the group is committed to Each business provides important channels of developing those at an early stage in their Management Development Programme communication to different sections of society.
The aim is to identify and support MDP : this is a three-day intensive workshop The success of the groups businesses owes future leaders within the operating focusing on innovation and launching new much to understanding and engaging with companies.
Through mentorship, structured businesses, followed by three months of the communities they serve both locally and career paths and challenging assignments group work to develop new business ideas, globally.
Below are some explanations on key we look to grow and develop our future which are then presented to a judging panel.
areas of corporate responsibility: leaders.
Two pilot programmes took place this year in the US.
Hackathon: the group ran its second hack PEOPLE event, TechSprint, in October last year in DMGTs Finance Conference: this is an People are a key part of our strategy.
We its search for the next generation of top annual conference where financial couldnt do what we do without our people tech talent.
Thirty recent graduates from professionals from each business come and we believe people capability is a key across the UK were placed in teams of five, together to discuss industry updates, share differentiator and growth driver for the group.
and tasked to solve and build solutions expertise and network.
The group has started to invest heavily in the to real-life business problems.
Each team people agenda this year and will continue to researched, designed, coded and then We want to retain and foster our do so.
Having created a new role, group-wide presented a variety of tech products to a entrepreneurial spirit while also bringing to HR director, the focus will be on the global panel of judges.
The group sees this kind fruition the benets of some company-wide strategic talent agenda, ensuring that going of event as evidence of its commitment initiatives and ensuring we deliver the best of forward we have the right people in the right toinnovation and investment in technology, both worlds from a people perspective.
jobs, doing the right things at the right time.
and also an invaluable source of graduate Diversity is a key focus through all our peopletalent.
The third event is expected to be run Work has commenced on remuneration and the related activities and is instrumental for our early in 2017. group has started a global talent and succession business.
The group is an equal opportunity management process this year.
The key priority Graduate Programme: graduate trainee employer.
It seeks to employ a workforce of remuneration refer to the Directors journalists join the group on a six-month which reects the diverse community at large, Remuneration Report on page 46 was to training programme.
The scheme combines because the contribution of the individual is enable future incentives for executive directors on-the-job training with classroom-based valued, irrespective of sex, age, marital status, and other members of executive management learning to equip participants for a career disability, sexual preference or orientation, to be more closely aligned with the groups key in financial and business journalism.
The race, colour, religion, ethnic or national strategic, financial and operational objectives.
technology graduate training programme origin.
It does not discriminate in recruitment, This includes transitioning away from the profit recruits skilled graduates for roles including promotion or other employee matters.
The share scheme used widely across the group developer, business analyst and quality group endeavours to provide a working for many years and implementation of the assurance tester.
Graduates are supported environment free from unlawful discrimination, Annual Bonus Plan, widening the adoption of by a team of mentors and gain handsvictimisation or harassment.
the existing 2015 Performance Share Plan to on experience working on projects across The board believes that diversity is important for replace the CAP 2014 scheme and introducing the group alongside divisional heads of board effectiveness.
However, diversity is much shareholding guidelines which will require technology and project managers.
more than an issue of gender, and includes a executive management to build up and retain DMGTs Leadership Development diversity of skills, experience, nationality and shares in the company.
Diversity will continue to be a Programme LDP : this is a comprehensive We have created a people strategy for 2017 programme developed and delivered key consideration when contemplating the which includes: composition and refreshing of the board as in partnership with the University of Cambridge.
It allows the sharing of insights well as senior and wider management.
The a robust succession planning and talent board recognises that while the overall balance in leadership areas such as markets and identication process globally: competitive landscapes and advances in of gender is good within the group, with 47% a global resourcing strategy including of employees being female 2015: 47%, there technology.
internal mobility: and is still more work to be done to full overall diversity ambitions and this will be a key focus a global talent development strategy.
28 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report CORPORATE & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIVERSITY PROFILE AT SEPTEMBER 30 2016 BOARD SENIOR MANAGERS TOTAL EMPLOYEES 100% 25% 47% 9 153 2,244 53% 75% Male 9 Male 114 Male 1,193 Female 39 Female 1,051 Female 0 The directors are committed to reducing The group also tries to adopt a company-wide ENVIRONMENT the groups absolute carbon emissions and charity and support it for a year or more.
In The group does not operate directly in 2015 the group went through a selection managing its carbon footprint.
Further details industries where there is the potential for process and the decision was made to support of the carbon footprint are set out in the serious industrial pollution.
It does not print both Afghan Connection, a charity with over Directors Report.
products in-house or have any investments ten years experience successfully funding in printing works.
It takes its environmental education and sports projects in Afghanistan, SOCIAL INVESTMENT responsibility seriously and complies with all and Haven House, an independent charity The group continues to expand its charitable relevant environmental laws and regulations supporting over 300 families in the UK activities and raised over 0.3m for local in each country in which it operates.
Wherever with children who have life-limiting or lifeand international charitable causes during economically feasible, account is taken of threatening conditions.
These contributions came from its environmental issues when placing contracts own charitable budget, individual employee This years efforts included a company-wide with suppliers of goods and services and these fundraising efforts and also from clients who challenge involving the UK and Hong Kong suppliers are regularly reviewed and monitored.
ofces to raise funds for Afghan Connection generously made donations in support of For instance, the groups two biggest print and Haven House.
The aim was to run, walk the companys charitable projects.
The group contracts are outsourced to companies which and cycle a total of 6,485km to the site in also continues to encourage employees to have environment management systems Afghanistan where Kezer Primary School be involved actively in supporting charities by compliant with the ISO 14001 standard.
The will be built in 2017 through Euromoneys fundraising themselves which it then matches.
paper used for the groups publications is support of Afghan Connection.
The challenge Further details can be found on the companys produced from pulp obtained from sustainable involved a mixture of a fun run, a virtual cycle website, www.
com corporateforests, manufactured under strict, monitored competition and a dedicated core team of .
runners and cyclists, with the final distance reached at 11,211km, almost double the The group works and partners with recognised The group is not a heavy user of energy: original target.
Employees raised 6,735 which charitable organisations that have expertise however, it does manage its energy was split between the two charities.
within certain sectors, thus ensuring that requirements sensibly using low-energy ofce the implementation and management of a equipment where possible and uses a common charitable project is carried out efficiently and sense approach to ofce energy management.
that donated funds reach the communities at Each ofce within the group is encouraged which the charitable cause is aimed.
At the to reduce waste, reuse paper and only print same time, the charity committee is careful documents and emails where necessary.
The to address the sustainability aspects of each main ofces across the group also recycle charitable project to ensure a long-lasting waste where possible.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Corporate & Social Responsibility CONTINUED A second initiative saw six Euromoney Certain statements made in this document employees take part in the Royal Parks Half are forward-looking.
Such statements are Melodys Story Marathon in support of Haven House with the based on current expectations and are subject aim to raise funds for their family counselling, to a number of risks and uncertainties that toy loan and palliative social work services.
could cause actual events or results to differ Alongside generous donations from friends, materially from any expected future events or family and colleagues, the team also hosted results referred to in these forward-looking Melody, who was born with Cerebral a bake sale and a charity breakfast, serving statements.
Unless otherwise required by Palsy, was brought to Little Rock when cooked breakfasts and bagels from the ofce applicable law, regulation or accounting she was six years old.
Despite her parents kitchen, and as a result raised a total of 2,330 standards, the directors do not undertake any doubts that she would ever learn to for the charity.
obligation to update or revise any forwardread and write, Melody excelled in her looking statements, whether as a result of Euromoney has been supporting Little Rock studies under the specialist teaching new information, future developments or since 2011 and has fundraised over 0.7m and occupational therapy provided at otherwise.
Nothing in this document shall be which was instrumental in building a new Little Rock.
However, when Melody tried regarded as a profit forecast.
school in 2012 and enabling it to support to enrol in local primary schools she children and their families to become a beacon The Strategic Report has been prepared for was rejected.
At 13 years old, Melody of inclusion in Kenya.
the group as a whole and therefore focuses remained at Little Rock alongside other primarily on those matters which are significant older disabled children who were also On the outskirts of Nairobi, in Kibera slum, you to Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC and rejected from primary schools.
Little will nd Little Rock Inclusive Early Childhood its subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a Rock decided to change this, and began Education Centre.
It has been prepared solely to provide working with local primary schools to living in an informal settlement with limited additional information to shareholders to change the attitudes of teachers through access to water, healthcare and education: the assess the companys strategy and the potential training and mentoring.
This year, Melody majority of children in Kibera do not have the for that strategy to succeed, and the Strategic was enrolled in a mainstream government life opportunities to break the cycle of poverty.
Report should not be relied upon by any other primary school and on seeing her ability, party for any other purpose.
Little Rock was founded in 2003 to give she was fast-tracked to a higher grade, Kibera children a solid foundation for life, next year she will start preparing for On behalf of the board and takes a unique approach of providing secondary school entrance exams.
an inclusive education, teaching disabled ANDREW RASHBASS children alongside their non-disabled peers, Chief Executive which is changing community attitudes November 24 2016 towards disability.
Little Rock provides a unique opportunity for education for children from the Kibera community.
Every day over 450 children aged six months to 11 years attend the kindergarten and learn together in an inclusive environment.
As well as learning to FTSE Group confirms that Euromoney read, write and communicate the kindergarten children receive a nutritious meal, on-site Institutional Investor PLC has been independently assessed according to the physio and occupational therapy and a very active programme of music, sport and play.
FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of Little Rock continues to supports children to transition to local primary and secondary the FTSE4Good Index Series.
FTSE4Good is an equity index series designed to facilitate schools, with over 200 children attending their after-school programme which provides investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
a meal, tutoring and access to the library resources and therapy services.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent environmental, social and governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benets of responsible business practice.
