Anti-corruption Our approach EVRAZ is committed to strict compliance with the Law of the Russian Federation #273 On Code of Conduct Preventing Corruption, the UK Bribery Act, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other relevant The Code of Conduct is the key document that all employees are requested to adhere to and local legal equivalents.
EVRAZ has implemented act in full accordance with.
Every new employee is trained on the Code of Conduct on their first internal policies on these matters to comply with day of work.
The document is available on the intranet and stresses the ultimate importance of both the letter and the spirit of these laws.
The ethical behaviour in all circumstances.
Anti-corruption training and the tone set from the top of the compliance team provides internal monitoring organization emphasise the role of the Code of Conduct in the companys daily life.
and control over areas generally perceived as holding risks of corruption at all EVRAZ assets.
The compliance manager routinely reports to ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY the senior vice president for business support and interregional relations and delivers regular updates on the status of anti-corruption efforts EVRAZ Anti-corruption policy sets and explains key principles that have been adopted to the Audit Committee.
at all assets to prevent corruption.
The policy is easily accessible on the corporate intranet for employees, interested parties and partners, who are all expected to be compliant with relevant anti-corruption legislation and principles upheld by EVRAZ.
Policies and regulations EVRAZ subsidiaries in the Russian Federation, Ukraine, the US and Canada enforce a Code of Conduct and Anti-corruption policy, which are the key documents defining norms of ethical and responsible behaviour of employees in all circumstances.
Anti-corruption Sponsorship Gifts and business All policies are available on the corporate training policy and charity policy entertainment policy intranet and employees are required to adhere Consistent efforts in the area All aspects of EVRAZ EVRAZ believes that business to them by taking personal responsibility for of anti-corruption education sponsorship and charity efforts gifts and hospitality are compliant behaviour.
Employees are encouraged are an integral element of a are regulated as necessary by accepted ways to demonstrate to approach compliance managers whenever well-thought-out compliance this policy.
Under it, the Group and further develop good they have questions about expected course of system.
The policy adopted may consider supporting lowrelationships.
At the same time, actions in difficult situations or when they want in December 2015 defines income or physically challenged adequate consistent control what positions and levels individuals, and those suffering over such expenses is very to voice concerns about known policy violations.
of authority are to undergo from conflicts or natural important and is among the training in anti-corruption disasters.
EVRAZ may choose key areas for anti-corruption awareness.
Specifically, all to support certain projects in compliance to watch.
The Key developments in 2016 managers and specialists from education, sport, health care, policy defines rules and strict compliance, legal, controlling, culture, and environment approval procedures to be All elements of EVRAZ compliance system asset protection, investor and protection.
All petitions are followed when extending or have been implemented across its Russian and government relations, and carefully considered in terms receiving gifts and hospitality.
HR are to receive training and of legitimacy and transparency In particular, all amounts above Ukrainian sites, which were considered priority pass a corresponding test.
of purpose, the amount US$100 for a personal gift targets for anti-corruption compliance efforts The same refers to all decision sought, and the reputation of received or given and US$500 in 2016.
This is explained by the admittedly making and or client managers the petitioner.
The decisions for hospitality received or higher risk of corruption in these countries as from procurement and sales.
are then taken by the Group extended to a person must be reported by Transparency International.
When support is approved by the responsible assigned discreet authority to granted, sponsorship being its compliance manager.
To this analyse risk areas and decide preferred form, such instances end, an electronic notification In March 2016, the esteemed organization who else needs to be trained.
are followed up by experts system has been developed.
assessed emerging market multinationals and under the vice president for The Internal Audit function published their research paper Transparency in corporate communications conducts regular checks of the Corporate Reporting.
The document mentioned and compliance managers.
completeness and accuracy the high results achieved by EVRAZ in building This ensures full accountability of records, either planned or up its anti-corruption program.
EVRAZ achieved and strict adherence of those requested by a compliance supported to EVRAZ policy manager, and compliance a score of 85%, which compares favourably requirements.
specialists act on any with the average of 74% for the technology recommendations promptly.
sector or the average of 48% for all companies considered in the assessment.
94 CSR report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 HOTLINE POLICY AND WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURES All business processes bearing high corruption risk are now duly covered by corresponding corporate regulations and policies, either updated or developed anew.
The areas of concern include EVRAZ encourages employees to raise concerns to their line managers if they believe procurement of goods, works and services, the companys policies or cardinal principles are somehow violated.
If employees, government relations, archiving of tendering clients, or contractors feel unable to do so via other means and procedures, documentation, recruitment, sponsorship and a confidential hotline is available 24 7. charity payments, selling of goods, works and services.
The effectiveness of these policies is closely monitored by the compliance and asset protection, internal audit and legal departments.
All EVRAZ sites have Anti-Corruption Compliance RULES ON SECURITIES DEALINGS units.
They routinely run checks on candidates, tenders, clients and potential conflicts of interest: In 2016, the Group developed a set of measures to ensure compliance with the EU Market conduct investigations into possible non-compliance Abuse Regulation the MAR which came into force in July 2016, including development of new with policies: monitor charity payments and Rules on securities dealings.
All procedures relating to share dealings have been communicated hospitality spending: and act on whistleblower to Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibility PDMRs and their Closely Associated Persons allegations of possible fraud, bribery or corruption.
All PDMRs and permanent insiders have completed online training modules dedicated to MAR and Rules on securities dealings and passed relevant assessment.
Compliance Managers submit findings and any recommendations to local Managing Directors.
Each month, the managers report all results to the Groups Compliance Officer and specialists under the Senior Vice President for Business Support.
They review and analyse them and liaise with senior management as necessary.
Candidates' background Conflict of interest Contractors suppliers Once a year, all Compliance Managers conduct and criminal record check policy due diligence check comprehensive anti-corruption and fraud risk analyses EVRAZ consistently performs A conflict of interest is a set To guard against unscrupulous, in their respective areas.
The findings are presented thorough background and of circumstances in which unreliable, or suspicious to local managers, who undertake corrective criminal record checks on all employees have financial or would-be agents and measures if necessary.
The Group Compliance Officer potential employees.
Among other personal considerations partners, the company runs then presents a consolidated analysis to the Audit other requirements and norms, that may compromise or comprehensive due diligence Committee.
The 2016 analysis, which found no major the policy specifies that all influence their professional checks on a business or person necessary effort is invested only judgment or integrity in carrying prior to signing a contract.
violations of anti-corruption statutes or cases of nonafter the candidate gives written out their work responsibilities.
EVRAZ fervently upholds a compliance with Group policies, was presented to the permission to work with his her The policy specifies how know-your-partner client Committee in early February 2017. personal data.
The company is situations with signs of such policy and in doing so is fully committed to protecting each conflicts are to be identified, compliant with the applicable Additional compliance control over payments to individuals privacy and works considered, and duly taken care anti-corruption laws.
The non-resident companies specifically off-shore is in full compliance with relevant of.
HR together with compliance investigation includes but is not laws on personal data.
managers routinely check if limited to checking business now also in place at Russian and Ukrainian assets.
there are conflicts of interests reputation and solvency of The Group has developed electronic means for in the company, whereas the company, as well as the compliance managers to approve such payments.
employees and particularly profile and reputation of its top Gifts and hospitality to be provided or accepted their managers are expected management.
are also approved in the same fashion.
to provide information about any potentially risky situations.
Special commissions consider At Evraz North America, the Risk Committee cases that are reported and approved a Conflict of Interest questionnaire that found to come up with the employees will be required to complete annually.
best possible solutions to each individual situation.
Anti-corruption training is progressing steadily.
In 2016 alone, some 4,200 managers and specialists in Russia and Ukraine completed an online course developed by Thomson Reuters.
Overall, the number of employees who have received training to date is close to 6,000.
The programme is due to be developed further in 2017. www.
