CSR report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Health, safety and environment Governance and HSE corporate management structure approach EVRAZ is devoted to improving occupational HSE COMMITTEE EVRAZ PLC BOARD and industrial safety, as well as to protecting OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF DIRECTORS the environment wherever it operates.
The Group aims to never stop improving HSE management at its assets by implementing technological improvements to its production EVRAZ CEO processes, with a clear management and control system and hierarchy.
EVRAZ manages health, safety and environment HSE at every level of its VICE PRESIDENT ON HSE business, from adopting strategy to responding to operational management issues.
In 2010, the management created a HSE Committee that reports to the Board of Directors and is Enviromental responsible for monitoring all HSE strategies, Health and Safety Industrial Safety Management Directorate Directorate policies, initiatives and activities.
In March Directorate 2011, EVRAZ introduced its Health, Safety and Environment Policy.
In March 2016, EVRAZ revised its Health, Safety and Environment Policy and added a fourth cardinal rule to the all-Company safety rule list.
product sales, as well as planning, distributing Periodic internal audits are undertaken to resources, collecting, analysing and submitting assess the Groups HSE policy compliance.
The HSE Committee deals with HSE issues at information, and reflecting emerging trends in Government agencies also perform external the executive level, and has appointed a viceindicators.
Any recommendations that president of HSE to coordinate all activities in follow from the inspections are analysed in the area.
Each individual enterprise has an HSE The HSE management process operates detail to allow the necessary remedial actions team to consider such issues that reports to in a continuous cycle that includes: to be taken.
the sites management with a dotted line to the forecasting and assessing primary HSE risks: vice president of HSE.
HSE compliance is the developing and implementing required EVRAZ incident reporting rules are applied responsibility of each and every plant manager.
All injuries monitoring, reviewing, and investigating involving any lost time and or fatalities are EVRAZ plays an active role in the World Steel incidents: recorded and a flash report is immediately Associations Environmental Policy EPCO, analysing performance, adjusting and distributed to all affected managers.
Standard Technology Policy TPCO and Safety and establishing new HSE strategy objectives.
lean format investigations are then conducted Health SHCO committees, as well as the HSE and lessons learnt are subsequently committees of Russian Steel, a Russia-based EVRAZ establishes, measures and assesses disseminated to concerned parties.
Every non-commercial partnership, and the Russian the primary indicators for HSE KPIs.
The fatality, severy injury or serious incident is Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.
system is continuously improved by monitoring, then reviewed by the HSE Committee, which promptly analysing and adjusting where also monitors the completion of all respective needed.
HSE system HSE releases a monthly special report EVRAZ has achieved certification in its main HSE reporting system regarding the past months injuries and steel mills under the ISO 14001 and OHSAS incidents that includes relevant HSE KPIs like 18001 standards.
EVRAZ HSE reporting system is tasked the lost-time injury frequency rate, fatalities with improving the collection and sharing of and cardinal rule violations.
The reports are The HSE systems primary functions are appropriate data organisation-wide.
Constant distributed to all EVRAZ employees.
to identify potential sources of environmental monitoring is ensured by subsidiaries harm, as well as health and safety risks to submitting monthly, quarterly and annual personnel throughout the production cycle, HSE performance data to the corporate HSE from raw material purchases to finished functions.
com 75 Health & safety Our approach Results in 2016 As for all steelmakers, EVRAZ employees and LTIFR.
EVRAZ LTIFR started to grow in Q2 LTIFR excluding fatalities, contractors work in an environment that has 2015 as a result of the Groups systemic per 1 million hours inherent health risks.
Among these risks effort to ensure full transparency in reporting.
2.47 are moving machinery, excessive heat, high Since then, several LTIs that were not duly 2.36 2.18 2.05 noise levels, high levels of dust and gas reported have led to serious consequences 1.60 concentration, confined space and ergonomic for the managers involved, which sent a clear stress.
EVRAZ underground operations have message to both blue-collar employees and additional specific risks, including rock collapse.
managers at all levels that the practice would no longer be tolerated.
The health and safety of employees is the 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Groups highest priority.
Therefore, the Group The Group believes that it is much more takes every effort to manage and effectively important for the management team to mitigate the risks typical of the sectors have the full picture of the injury rates to be 1 EVRAZ is operating in.
This is done through able to step in with corrective actions rather Number of injuries the implementation of enhanced production than to prop up statistics, and will therefore 2016 processes, as well as with new management persist in driving any falsifications out of its 6 42 273 and control systems.
The Group strives to facilities as inappropriate at any level.
There 321 create a safe workplace at all enterprises and is a clear temporal correlation between 2015 continues to develop relevant projects, provide disciplinary action taken for falsifying facts 10 34 289 333 employees with personal protective equipment or circumstances regarding an occupational and install cutting-edge safety equipment.
More injury and subsequent increase in the number 2014 importantly, EVRAZ pays increasing attention to of injuries reported.
12 43 227 282 employees behaviour, thus developing a safety culture to reinforce this effort.
Regular safety The other factor that has influenced the 2013 conversations are aimed at increasing safety increase is the gradual reduction of total man- 18 46 299 363 awareness among steelworkers and miners hours worked, which is mainly achieved through with regard to themselves and their colleagues.
staff reductions in the administrative personnel 2012 that operates in a lower-risk environment and 25 59 379 463 Apart from increasing the safety of its own are therefore less prone to LTIs.
employees, the Group also works rigorously with Fatalities LTI severe LTI minor contractors to improve their safety programmes.
Although the number of fatalities 1 EVRAZ aims to reduce the number of is gradually going down, EVRAZ has faced six Without contractors contractors at all EVRAZ operations and gives fatal incidents in 2016.
Three of the above preference to more established companies fatalities resulted from unsafe operations on with clear safety-management practices.
The moving machinery, one employee was fatally addition of prequalification procedures, regular injured by a falling object, and another was Fatalities audits and post-assignment assessments killed by electric shock after unsafe actions on 2016 helped this approach cut the number of LTIs an electrical substation.
The final one involved 6 0 among contractors in half compared with 2015 a rock collapse in a coal mine 321, the employee 6 and drove the number of fatalities involving died in the hospital several days after the 2015 contractor employees down to zero.
incident due to multiple fatal injuries.
3 10 333 13 The Groups LTIFR, which excludes fatalities, 2014 rose to 2.36 in 2016, up 8% year-on-year, 12 7 282 19 after EVRAZ started to enforce transparency in reporting in 2015.
While the total number 2013 18 6 of fatalities and severe injuries taken together 363 24 has been decreasing over the recent years, the relative increase in recorded minor incidents 2012 25 6 is an indicator of an overall improvement in 463 31 reporting transparency.
EVRAZ employee Contractors 76 CSR report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Treatment of occupational diseases.
Key projects Key risk localisation programmes.
To make All occupational diseases are treated under safety initiatives more industry specific and more the Groups mandatory work-related accident EVRAZ believes that the safety initiatives tailor-made to the needs of respective facilities, and occupational disease insurance.
EVRAZ implemented across the Group are helping it EVRAZ suggested that business divisions design is required by law to pay the premiums for support the development of its safety culture key risk localisation programmes.
Employees diagnosed with and will therefore have a lasting effect on its of activities targeted at the areas that are of occupational diseases receive temporary safety performance.
The two key initiatives in greatest concern from a safety perspective.
disability benefits and their treatment costs 2016 were targeted at reducing the number of Some divisions are investing extra efforts in gas are covered.
The Group also provides financial unsafe actions through safety conversations on safety, some are breakthroughs in working at assistance to such employees, depending on the shop floor and unifying processes with the height etc.
This ongoing initiative was launched their circumstances and medical condition: help of standard safe work procedures.
in 2016, but most of the activities are planned for example, if they require lengthy medical for 2017 and on.
treatment, they may receive compensation Safety conversations.
Regular safety for moral harm.
However, employees may not conversations taking place among employees use these funds to arrange their own medical and managers on shop floors are indispensable Objectives for 2017 treatment.
for building a positive safety culture.
Recognising that such conversations are an essential part In 2017, in addition to continuing the key risk of promoting safe behaviour, EVRAZ introduced localisation programmes, EVRAZ plans to continue a system of scheduling such conversations implementing the key initiatives targeted at Number of registered regularly across its sites.
Every manager, from a developing safe employee behaviour safety occupational diseases.
first line supervisor to the CEO, has a personal conversations and standard safe work procedures.
target to conduct a certain number of such In 2016, there was a gradual decrease in the number of occupational diseases registered conversations.
This is in essence similar to the The two initiatives methodologies are described at EVRAZ facilities worldwide: the 354 cases concept of behaviour safety audits, but EVRAZ in the section above.
The key change in the reported in 2016 makes for an 4% reduction chose to focus the attention of managers on safety conversations methodology is adding compared with 2015 when there were 368 the conversation aspect to make sure that they extra focus to the quality of such conversations, cases, and an even more significant reduction talk to their reports about safety right at the which will be monitored in two ways.
compared with earlier years for instance, 452 workplace.
Partially driven by a general On the one hand, safety teams will be observing reduction of man-hours, this is also a result In 2016, EVRAZ managers completed over whether managers follow the safety conversations of a closer look at working conditions and 500,000 safety conversations with the Groups methodology when running such conversations.
a corporate effort to eliminate highest-risk employees, many of them having at least one On the other hand, operations managers will be workplaces in terms of employee health.
suggestion to improve safety at work.
All these auditing the conversations run by their reports suggestions are analysed by the relevant by checking whether they in fact took place, Safety awards received in 2016 supervisors and the key ones are tracked whether the non-conformities found by the through completion.
audited manager reflect the real situation in his Awarding organisation: INTERCOMM 2016 unit, and whether corrective actions suggested Standard safe work procedures.
One of the by employees were actually implemented and Corporate Communications key principles of safe work is making sure that tracked though completion.
Checklists have been Lifestyle Nomination Winner.
With its the respective process is initially designed in designed to ensure consistency in both areas.
Safety Week campaign, EVRAZ was the a safe way and all employees are trained to best among projects targeting healthy lifestyle and family values follow the procedure.
To support this approach, EVRAZ also plans to continue LOTO projects EVRAZ decided that each structural unit should aimed at preventing machinery from releasing Awarding organisation: Safety and Security design 10 standard safe work procedures hazardous energy by physically locking the Section of the Coal of Russia and Mining and implement them in accordance with the controls, as well as rolling out alcohol testing at 2016 Expo corporate requirements.
These requirements the gate to ensure strict enforcement of EVRAZ Design and implementation of the Daily imply employees participation in developing zero-tolerance policy.
Feedback IT Solution to ensure visual these procedures, as well as proper training and training material demonstration and verification on the part of the management team.
EVRAZ believes that these programmes and express knowledge testing of employees initiatives will help the Group reduce its LTIFR before each shift.
EVRAZ has designed and implemented over down to 2.0 or lower, which is its overall target Implementation of the Lock out - Try out 2,000 standard safe work procedures in 2016. approved for 2017. system in coal mines.
com 77 Environment Environmental strategy EVRAZ steel and mining operations have potential impact, as well as consulting with significant energy and water requirements and local communities regarding any decisions that The Group has committed to various can potentially impact the environment through may be made throughout the projects life.
environmental protection programmes waste generation, wastewater discharge, air for the period from 2016 to 2022. emissions and land contamination.
EVRAZ supports the European Unions health As of 31 December 2016, the cost of and environmental goals as established implementing these programmes was Environmental legislation strictly regulates in Regulation EC No.
1907 2006 of the estimated at these operations and requires the Group to European Parliament and of the Council, obtain environmental permits and licences.
which governs the registration, evaluation, US$119 million EVRAZ must maintain compliance with authorisation and restriction of chemicals 1 their terms for them to remain valid and be REACH.
The Group strives to maintain extended.
This generally requires implementing REACH compliance.
certain environmental commitments, recruiting In 2016, EVRAZ spent qualified personnel, maintaining necessary The Groups environmental strategy aims to equipment and environmental monitoring minimise any negative impacts caused by its US$24 million systems, and periodically submitting operations, as well as to make efficient use of information to environmental regulators.
natural resources and find optimal industrial on measures to ensure environmental compliance Noncompliance on any of these fronts carries waste management solutions.
Environmental the potential for the environmental permits compliance is a top long-term priority.
and licences to be suspended, amended, US$12 million terminated or not renewed, or could entail In 2012, after determining the key challenges on projects to improve its environmental significant costs for the Group to eliminate or and focus areas, EVRAZ voluntarily adopted performance remedy any such violations.
five-year environmental targets over 2012-17 aimed at: 2 EVRAZ strives to continuously improve its reducing air emissions by 5%: environmental management systems, including decreasing fresh water consumption by 15%: By the end of the year, the Group 3 via its ongoing ISO 14001 audit programme.
had met the targets set for water While international certification is not a legal consumption and recycling requirement, nine of the Groups sites are The Groups  currently certified to the ISO 14001 standard, environmental levies and fines increased 17.3% water consumption including such key operations as EVRAZ NTMK, by 7 % to US$2.1 million in 2016 from EVRAZ ZSMK and EVRAZ DMZ.
120% of waste being recycled No significant environmental permits or EVRAZ conducts an Environmental and Social licences were missing or revoked in 2016, exceeding the 100% target by recycling Impact Assessment ESIA of all new operations although the Russian government has waste from prior periods and projects, during which it consults with tightened the requirements for obtaining local and regional governments, businesses environmental permits and licences.
This was and community members in the affected area.
the reason for the delay in issuing some of At the end of 2016, EVRAZ was yet The ESIAs evaluate any potential direct and the new permits, which led to non-compliance to fulfil the target for air emissions, indirect impacts that the new operation may levies of US$ 0.5 million.
EVRAZ assets had having registered have on the local community and surrounding no significant environmental incidents or environment.
The ESIA process entails creating material environmental claims during the 18.8% since 2011 mitigation plans to minimise and manage any reporting period.
1 REACH Regulation EC 1907 2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council, according to which as of 1 June 2007, all chemical substances, mixtures and substances in articles in some cases produced in or imported to European Economic Area EEA territory above 1 tonne per year are subject to mandatory procedures such as registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals.
If chemicals are not registered in accordance with REACH, the products are not allowed to be manufactured in or imported into the EEA.
2 Including nitrogen oxides NOx, sulphur oxides SOx, dust and volatile organic compounds only.
3 The rate of the amount of waste recycled or used versus annual waste generation, not including mining waste.
It can exceed 100% due to recycling of waste from prior periods.
78 CSR report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Air emissions EVRAZ top environmental priorities include decreasing air emissions.
The primary air emissions comprise nitrogen oxides NOx, sulphur oxides SOx, dust and volatile organic compounds.
In 2011, before adopting its five-year environmental targets, the Group had already substantially reduced its air emissions.
The current strategy for reducing air emissions envisages upgrading gas treatment systems, introducing modern technologies and eliminating obsolete equipment.
In 2016, key air emissions were down by 3.5 thousand tonnes or 2.6% compared with 2015.
The management has also decided to conduct a like-for-like analysis that rebases the target by excluding data related to divested assets EVRAZ VGOK, EVRAZ EVRAZ pays special attention to environmental Vitkovice Steel, Evrazrudas Krasnoyarsk protection mines, EVRAZ ZSMKs central power plant, EVRAZ Highveld and EVRAZ NTMKs Nizhnesaldinsky metal mill, which shows The Group strives to minimise its impact on 170,000 tonnes of young fish.
Raspadskaya that key air emissions at current assets have the air and water by implementing modern employees cleaned up the shore of the risen by 18.8% since 2011.
This has been technology, upgrading equipment, reusing Olzheras river in Mezhdurechensk, recycled driven primarily by an increase in sulphur and recycling production by-products, 300 tonnes of batteries and 200 tonnes of content in the coal and ore used at EVRAZ monitoring buffer zones, refurbishing slag paper, hung birdhouses, and planted 50 ZSMKs power and sinter plants, which has storage facilities, and constantly monitoring saplings in Mezhdurechensk.
EVRAZ ZSMK resulted in higher SOx emissions, and higher air and water quality.
staff cleaned up the shore of the Aba river and NOx emissions at EVRAZ KGOK.
planted more than 100 pine trees.
EVRAZ employees in Russia and Ukraine However, EVRAZ emission reduction regularly take part in environmental In the Urals, EVRAZ NTMK employees initiatives are expected to decrease key air campaigns, including: joining nationwide created a new pedestrian avenue and emissions over the coming years.
volunteer drives to clean up waterways, planted several dozen trees: cleaned up public squares and parks: and planting an industrial architectural monument, the trees, hanging birdhouses, releasing young Kuibyshev Factory Museum, and planted fish into rivers to restore their biodiversity, a grove of more than 200 birches.
EVRAZ and recycling paper and batteries.
KGOK staff cleaned up the city pond and decorated the citys central pedestrian EVRAZ key air emissions, In 2016, EVRAZ employees participated in avenue with flowering bushes.
kt the following environmental campaigns: Big Green Games Make 2016!, Kuzbass In Ukraine, employees regularly take part in 134.17 130.68 124.24 122.11 Forest, Russian Water, and Country of volunteer campaigns.
As part of the Clean 119.12 My Dreams, while employees of Ukrainian Ukraine Up Together campaign, EVRAZ subsidiaries joined the Clean Ukraine Up DMZ staff planted 50 maples and cleaned Together campaign.
up the Dievsky forest park.
Evraz Sukha Balka and Evraz Yuzhkoks cleaned up city Staff at Evrazruda in Siberia planted more streets, parks and waterways.
EVRAZ DMZ than 100 trees as part of the Kuzbass Forest also launched a separate waste collection campaign.
They also released more than and recycling programme in 2016.
com 79 Greenhouse gas emissions EVRAZ operations also generate carbon Overall GHG emissions from EVRAZ EVRAZ GHG emissions in 2016, MtCO e dioxide and other greenhouse gas GHG operations fell by about 5% year-on-year in 2 emissions.
Emissions of CO remain at the 2015 2 EVRAZ Total level due to the cumulative effect of a minor 35.95 5.02 The Group understands the urgency of climate increase at the Steel segment up around 0.4 change prevention and supports the global million tCO e and the cease in operations at 2 Steel segment effort to reduce the emission of GHGs into the EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium in 2016.
In compliance with the Companies In the Coal segment, CH emissions dropped 4 Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Report by 10% due to a lower methane content in the Steel, North America segment Regulations 2013, EVRAZ measures the full GHG coal mined as well as lower coal extraction at 0.53 0.49 emissions its facilities and has taken part in the some mines.
CDP Climate Change Programme since 2011.
Coal segment 7.54 0.91 All told, EVRAZ brought down its Scope 1 The Group measures direct Scope 1 emissions by 2% and its Scope 2 emissions by 1 emissions of all seven Kyoto GHGs and roughly 19%, due to the cease in operations at Direct emissions Indirect energy emissions indirect Scope 2 emissions from the use of EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium in 2016 Scope 1 Scope 2 2 electricity and heat.
The inventory approach which accounted for some 6% and lower was based on the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for volumes of energy purchased by EVRAZ NTMK National Greenhouse Gas Inventories IPCC and EVRAZ ZSMK in 2016.
2006 and the WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
EVRAZ reports an intensity ratio relating its GHG emissions per net revenue, kg CO e US$ EVRAZ reports data in tonnes of carbon dioxide annual GHG emissions to its activities: total 2 CO equivalent tCO e, calculated using the Scope 1 and 2 emissions per consolidated 2 2 IPCC Fourth assessment report 2007 global revenue for the Group overall and each 8.5 warming potentials.
In addition, specific emissions in the Steel segment per 6.4 Data on GHG emissions were collected for tonne of steel cast for 2013-16 are compared 5.7 5.5 5.3 2016 and compared with 2013-2015 levels.
with average specific emissions of World Steel 4.9 The Steel segment continues to generate more Association members for 2015.
Higher specific than half of gross GHG emissions from Group GHG emissions in the Steel segment may operations.
Nearly 92% of the Coal segments be due to the key role played by integrated full emissions come from fugitive methane iron and steel works which inherently emit 0.7 0.6 CH leakage, which is caused by methane more GHGs than rolling mills in EVRAZ steel 4 ventilation from underground mines and postproduction.
EVRAZ Steel Steel, North Coal segment America segment mining emissions from coal.
segment 2015 2016 Specific Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from the Steel segment incl.
NA, t CO e per t of steel cast 2 2.18 2.15 Worldsteel 2.12 2.09 average 2015 1 Carbon dioxide CO, methane CH, nitrous oxide N O, hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons HFC PFC, 2 4 2 1.9 sulphur hexafluoride SF and nitrogen trifluoride NF.
6 3 2 The inventory of emissions includes all entities the Group controls.
Entities that were disposed of during the year were included for the period they were part of the Group.
Only entities that were deemed immaterial for consolidated emissions based on their operational indicators were omitted.
Direct CO emissions from operations were calculated using the carbon balance method for carbon flows within 2 production facilities, including fuel use.
Emissions of other GHGs were calculated based on measured volumes, inventory changes or IPCC 2006 factors and models including that for post-mining coal methane emissions where direct measurement data were not available.
Indirect emissions were estimated using emission factors specifically developed for the country or region.
Given the HSE eastern bank of Portland Harbor since resources and prevent any negative water Committees decision to re-base the target 1968.
Prior to and during the early years quality impacts through environmental by excluding data related to disposed assets, of the mills operation, the riverbank was incidents.
fresh water consumption was down by 78.2 filled with dredge fill soil and slag that million cubic metres 17.3% compared with the were identified as a potential source In 2016, almost 84% of EVRAZ total water 2011 adjusted baseline.
Water discharge was of contamination to the river.
The mill intake for production needs was from surface reduced by 45.15 million cubic metres over is part of the 10-mile-long Portland sources, including rivers, lakes and reservoirs 2012-2016.
Harbor Superfund site and has entered the same result as in 2015. a voluntary agreement with the Oregon Water pumped from mines dewatering is Department of Environmental Quality In 2016, the ongoing water management not included in the fresh water consumption DEQ to address potential sources of performance improvement programmes at target, although pumped water is partly used contamination from its property.
EVRAZ operations began to show their first for technological needs.
In 2016, 20.3 million environmental benefits, evidenced by the cubic metres of mine water were pumped out During 2015-2016, EVRAZ Portland 3.3% year-on-year reduction in fresh water and used, compared with 20.5 million cubic implemented the Riverbank Cap project.
consumption down by 11.3 million cubic metres in 2015.
The EVRAZ project team successfully met regulatory agreements, design objectives, and steel mill needs to achieve a common goal, and constructed the project under a strict time frame due to fish migration.
This project provides environmental benefits by removing, EVRAZ fresh water consumption, 3 million m capping, and stabilising the riverbank to prevent releases of contaminants into the Willamette River, and by enhancing 422.26 shoreline riparian habitat.
The shoreline 368.44 340.23 332.13 327.60 was capped, stabilised, and enhanced with native vegetation.
More than 18,000 cubic yards of contaminated soil was removed and replaced with clean material, and 10,000 native trees and shrubs were planted and are now thriving.
com 81 Waste management Mining and steelmaking operations produce The main reason for the lower waste recycling Recycling rate, significant amounts of waste, including waste rate is that EVRAZ ZSMK sold its slag % rock, spent ore and tailings waste from processing plant and slag disposal facility 126.3 120.1 processing ore and concentrates.
EVRAZ aims to an external recycling company.
110.0 103.9 105.7 to reduce the amount of waste that it produces, 100 re-use natural resources where possible and EVRAZ strategy for dealing with nondispose of waste in a manner that minimises hazardous mining wastes, such as depleted the environmental impact while maximising rock, tailings and overburden, is to use them operational and financial efficiency.
where possible for land rehabilitation and the construction of dams or roads.
In 2016, In line with the Groups strategy to reduce 18.2% or 28.7 million tonnes of such waste 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 waste storage volumes and enhance waste material were reused, compared with 17% or disposal, EVRAZ enterprises regularly review 24.6 million tonnes in 2015. opportunities for waste recycling and reuse.
All non-recyclable waste is stored in facilities In 2016, EVRAZ steel mills generated that are designed to prevent any harmful 9.65 million tonnes of metallurgical waste substances contained in the waste from slag, sludge, scale etc and recycled or reused escaping into the environment.
Overall, the Group such facilities is monitored extremely closely, recycled or reused 120.1% of non-mining and steps have been taken to mitigate as far waste and by-products in 2016, compared with as possible any danger to third parties 126% in 2015. in an emergency.
Waste management strategy Improve technological processes to enhance product quality.
MINIMISE AT THE SOURCE Secure by-products without generating waste.
Re-use the main types of waste from metals production: RE-USE slag, clinker and tailings, including from old dumps.
Develop new products that feature various types of waste.
RECYCLE Use inert waste to reshape land plots and build dams or roads.
BURN AS A FUEL Generate heat from hot slag.
Use waste for heating local boilers.
GENERATE HEAT Store waste that cannot be used today safely, retaining the option STORE of using the locations as industrial sites in the future.
It is forbidden to: burn production and consumption waste without special facilities BURN or dump it outside designated areas.
EVRAZ Fundamental Environmental Requirements 82 Order of preference CSR report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Environmental awards in 2016 evaporate due to the interaction of molten Awarding organisation: Vernadsky metal splash or streams of metal with Nongovernmental Ecological Fund atmospheric oxygen.
EVRAZ ZSMK EVRAZ experts have studied several types Winner in the Urban Ecology category of equipment designed to reduce dust at the XIII Vernadsky National emissions.
They selected a method of Ecological Awards for the project suppressing red smoke by using an inert titled Modernising EVRAZ ZSMK.
gas when tapping hot metal into ladles.
Awarding organisation: Russian Ministry When filling the ladle with cast iron, nitrogen of Industry and Trade gas is injected to the metal stream through special nozzles.
This forms a gas curtain EVRAZ NTMK EVRAZ DMZ reduces over the surface that does not allow the Winner in the Environmental and metal to oxidise or red smoke to form: the red smoke from blast Resource Protection category at the curtain also covers the tap holes.
High Social Efficiency Metal & Mining furnaces Company awards.
The dust-suppression system installed Emissions from the blast furnace on the casthouse of blast furnace 3 Awarding organisation: Associated Oregon casthouse have a significant has already proven its effectiveness: Industries and Northwest Environmental Business Council environmental impact.
The casting process atmospheric dust emissions from BF-3 have generates red smoke, which rises into the fallen by 70%, or by 482.6 tonnes per year.
EVRAZ Portland air and forms a dust plume.
Red smoke BF-2 is now slated to be similarly equipped Oregon Industries Environmental is generated when iron or its oxides in 2017.
Excellence Award for Portland Riverbank Cap project.
In addition, EVRAZ has received six regional awards in Russias Kemerovo region.
EVRAZ signs agreement with Russian Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment Russias Ministry of Natural Resources EVRAZ ZSMK will be modernising and Environment, Federal Service for the the dedusting systems in the sinter Supervision of Natural Resources, and the cooler of its sinter plant.
It will also administrations of Kemerovo and Sverdlovsk be implementing a water protection regions have signed an environmental programme that envisages gradual cooperation agreement with EVRAZ.
The transition to return water cycle and agreement covers a list of environmental minimising the waste water discharge.
actions that EVRAZ will implement in 2017, which has been declared the Year of the The head of Russias Ministry of Natural Environment in Russia.
Resources and Environment, Sergey Donskoy, said that the agreement is As part of the agreement, EVRAZ NTMK proof that EVRAZ is environmentally will be retrofitting its coke dry quenching responsible, and that he expects plant.
The upgrade will allow natural an increasing number of Russian gas to be replaced with coke in the blast companies to contribute to environmental furnace process and to significantly conservation in the future.
reduce the mills emissions by 2017. www.
