Social policy Our people Our approach EVRAZ continues to focus on working both with and for people.
The Groups management recognises that reaching their business targets depends on carefully selecting new hires, providing quality training and ensuring that staff are properly motivated.
Personnel profile Staff recruitment policy Staff development The Groups in-house HR function meets 99% Staff development strategy.
In 2016, EVRAZ of its recruiting needs, regardless of the type continued its From Foreman to Managing of position being filled corporate or technical, Director program.
This corporate selection, specialist or management.
assessment and development procedure aims to improve the managerial skills of With a view toward attracting talented graduates shop-floor supervisors, as well as to clearly and providing professional development for define the responsibility and authority of every staff, EVRAZ has launched several initiatives in management level, from foreman to shop-floor cooperation with leading universities: manager.
improving educational programmes for targeted training or retraining In 2016, the Group launched a project focused on upgrading technical and scientific equipment foremen, the first-line managers on the shop floor.
supporting talented students through grants The projects scope has been expanded to also and scholarships include area managers.
EVRAZ has developed offering internships the requirements for the area manager position, Corporate scientific as well as a quarterly assessment system and technical youth The Group prefers to promote from within, but covering three areas: health and safety, people conference when necessary goes outside the organisation to management, and process management.
find the top experts in their fields.
To encourage Each year, teams compete to solve Candidate assessments follow EVRAZ outstanding performance and ensure that technical problems faced by real principles of safety, respect for people, corporate and individual goals are clearly linked, business units.
customer orientation, accountability and the Group has implemented performance teamwork, as well as the world-renowned Korn management systems throughout its operations.
In 2016, 40 young engineers from eight TM Ferry Learning Agility model.
The performance management process of the Groups enterprises participated business tasks and development targets include in the competition.
They were key performance indicators KPIs of certain familiarised with the production process business units aligned with EVRAZ strategic EVRAZ NTMKs converter unit, taught principles and personal development plans.
The to use one of the Theory of Inventive MANAGING performance management plans are used to Problem Solving Russian abbreviation: DIRECTOR MD create further initiatives to motivate staff and TRIZ tools, and developed solutions ensure career growth.
to five problems facing the business MD-1 HEADS unit two teams were assigned to each OF FUNCTIONS Training and development.
The best solutions have been an emphasis on selecting, developing and approved for implementation at EVRAZ MD-2 SHOP-FLOOR promoting high-potential employees, as set out NTMK in 2017.
MANAGERS in its five-year goals.
EVRAZ draws on the technical expertise of its MD-3 AREA MANAGERS staff by obtaining their input when developing in-house educational materials and training courses to ensure that all employees are ready MD-4 FOREMEN to tackle even the toughest issues that may arise in the course of doing business.
86 CSR report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 We have competed in the WorldSkills Hi-Tech championship for several years now, and our results keep getting better with each passing year.
It makes me happy to see how the EVRAZ team spirit is already showing itself at international competitions.
I would like to see more of our employees take part and win in future years.
Alexei Yuryev Managing director of EVRAZ ZSMK The Group launched its Retaining and Developing Engineering Competency programme in 2012 to establish a pool of subject matter experts with unique knowledge and empower them to maintain and transfer their expertise to their successors.
In 2016, youth technical conferences were held at all EVRAZ business units to brainstorm loss-reduction solutions.
Technical directors and experts judged the solutions and the best of them are being implemented.
At an HSE conference that was held at Raspadskaya, Dmitry Fitz and Maxim Nutrikhin at III WorldSkills Hi-Tech Championship attendees came up with technical solutions and content to help improve safety.
Young specialists who attended the Groups In 2016, Russian, Ukrainian, US and Canadian Four silver medals, scientific and technical conference helped solve engineers graduated the sixth EVRAZ New two teams problems that EVRAZ NTMKs oxygen plant Leaders Programme, which is hosted by the among top five has been facing using the Theory of Inventive Skolkovo Moscow School of Management to at international Problem Solving Russian abbreviation: TRIZ design and implement initiatives to improve method.
Two young engineers clubs also meet process performance.
WorldSkills Hi-Tech at EVRAZ ZSMK and Raspadskaya.
The Group 2016 championship estimates that nearly 40% of the solutions Assessment of training programme developed using the TRIZ method have been efficiency.
As part of the Retaining and implemented in production.
Developing Engineering Competency The III WorldSkills Russia National programme that was established in 2012, the Competition 2016 took place from In 2016, EVRAZ held its first corporate Group gathered its top 360 experts to take part 30 October to 3 November in WorldSkills championship and took part for in training programs and technical forums, as Ekaterinburg, Russia.
A total of 300 the third time in the Russian Federations well as to set tasks for and supervise projects young professionals from 100 leading WorldSkills hi-tech national championship.
A panel EVRAZ staff took silver prizes in three of the of 420 experts, including international five skills competitions in which they took part.
From 2012 to 2016, a total of 63 sessions of specialists from 20 different countries, the Chief Specialist School have been held.
judged the young professionals work In 2016, at production units in Ukraine, the first The Chief Specialist School is an engineering in 27 hi-tech industry competencies.
three sessions of the Chief Engineer School expertise development and improvement project EVRAZ team included 11 employees were held, as well as a technical forum dedicated programme for Groups employees.
of EVRAZ ZSMK, EVRAZ NTMK, to improving efficiency of mining operations.
Four of For example, four of the programs developed them took home silver medals in the The solutions that EVRAZ experts and young and curated by the Groups experts as part following competencies: electrical professionals have come up with have been of EVRAZ ZSMKs Chief Specialist School installation, mechatronics technology structured, collected into an engineering materials have already saved more than RUB10 million, combining electronics and mechanical library, and posted on the corporate intranet.
com 87 The Group honours its experts, which already Diversity Number of employees at December 31, number 693 across the Russian and Ukrainian thousand people assets.
EVRAZ sees diversity as a crucial business 110.9 105.1 driver and strives to ensure that all employees 94.8 84.5 In 2016, a scientific and technical advisory rights receive equal protection, regardless of 77.8 board was also created under the guidance race, nationality, gender or sexual orientation.
of the Groups CEO so that experts could The Group also strongly values diversity in its benchmark the progress of technology and recruitment efforts.
People with disabilities are development of technological solutions.
given full consideration to ensure that their unique aptitudes and abilities are taken into account.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Technical forums have become excellent venues for the Groups specialists to discuss and analyse technical issues, seek outside opinions, Employee engagement and develop implementation and action plans.
EVRAZ pays great attention to its internal Diversity of employees, senior In 2016, three engineering forums involving communications processes and constantly management and directors, % number of people international and Russian industry experts seeks to build an efficient system, designed were held at the request of technical directors.
not only to keep information flowing, but also to Board The Groups specialists devised plans to reduce increase employee loyalty and motivation.
88 7 12 1 pig iron production costs, improve mining efficiency, and cut the amount of time that is Work with trade unions Senior management 95 21 5 1 spent on treatment and tunnelling faces.
EVRAZ strives to maintain constructive and Assessment of personnel positive relations with the labour unions that Employees 71 55,268 29 22,574 represent its employees rights.
Overall, there Each year, talent committees meet to approve is a relatively high level of unionisation at the talent pool.
In 2016, this process was the Groups enterprises c. 73%, albeit with Men Women automated using SAPs Success Factors system, significant variations across operations and which gathered all necessary information into countries.
one system, making it more intuitive, complete and accessible for the talent committees.
Foremens councils have also been established at such enterprises as EVRAZ KGOK and Various assessment methods are applied Raspadskaya, as well as a masters council depending on the goals and category of personnel: at EVRAZ NTMK, which are not intended to Breakdown of Hot Line enquiries in 2016, TM Korn Ferrys Learning Agility model is used replace labour unions but rather to offer % to select and assess the talent pool, select recommendations for improving labour In 2016, the hotline received about training programme participants, and make conditions and other issues.
840 requests, all of which were promotion decisions investigated.
The most popular The From Foreman to Managing Director EVRAZ relationship with labour unions is issue with more than 460 calls concerned performance assessment project is used to founded on the principle of social partnership.
Inside this topic the first assess shop-floor supervisors Members of the management regularly meet place belongs to housekeeping services SHL testing and questionnaires are used to with union representatives for both formal and 114 and the second, to salaries 94.
The assess the reliability of staff working in highinformal discussions at every EVRAZ facility, number of questions regarding personal risk environments both in Russia and around the world.
At management request, 360 feedback sessions are conducted The labour unions at EVRAZ enterprises are part of nationwide industrial unions in Personal development plans are created and Russia, this includes the Russian Mining included in the corporate training programme and Metallurgical Union and the Russian based on the assessments.
Coal Industry Workers Union, and are also members of the Russian Federation Headcount of Independent Unions and international industrial union associations.
This At the industry level, EVRAZ cooperates with 55 Labor relations was mainly due to staff optimisation including labour unions through industry employer Health and safety 21 the outsourcing of support functions and the associations.
The Group is a member of the 12 Security related matters closure of a poorly performing mine in the Coal Russian Coal Mining Industry Employers General information requests 11 Others 1 segment 630 employees.
Association and the Russian Metallurgists 88 CSR report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Association.
It is also part of the negotiations Financial motivation on agreements with employee associations at the industry level coal and steel mining.
Primorsky kray Ratio of average salary Collective bargaining agreements are in force to average salary in the 1.66 region at most EVRAZ operations.
They are based on industry agreements and cover employment, Kemerovo region working hours, salaries, HSE, benefits and 1.63 welfare.
They also guarantee labour unions Dnepropetrovsk region rights.
In addition to state-guaranteed benefits, 1.49 bargaining agreements offer supplemental privileges and social programmes for Sverdlovsk region employees and their families, as well as 1.45 retirees and veterans voluntary health EVRAZ strives to motivate insurance for employees, workplace accident its employees by offering Tula region insurance, housing improvement assistance, above-average salaries for 1.44 various kinds of financial support, subsidised the regions where they work.
1 recreation and holiday vouchers, holiday Russia Ukraine gifts etc.
Social programmes are region and industry-specific to provide maximum value and relevance for employees.
Sporting and cultural events are held together with trade unions.
Labour unions also help distribute Objectives for 2017 Employee engagement awards in 2016 benefits to employees, including vacation Awarding organisations: Russian Mining and packages for stays at health resorts.
The primary goal is conforming with best HR Metallurgical Trade Union, Association of practises, maintaining high process quality Russian Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, The bargaining agreements include sections on and ensuring that the Group has engaged, Russian Ministry of Industry and Trade.
HSE that outline the employers responsibility motivated, loyal and competent staff.
for providing employees a healthy and safe EVRAZ NTMK work environment.
The main focus in recruitment is Winner of the Environment and natural personal protection equipment that exceeds to build on what has already been achieved and resource protection award in the XIII the minimum government requirements, as well to improve university outreach.
national competition Most Socially as offering medical check-ups and healthcare Effective Metal and Mining Company services at the employees workplaces, Development and assessment of personnel.
Evrazruda providing public amenities, conducting HSE Extend the system of selection, evaluation Winner of the Work with Youth training and examinations, and more.
and training for personnel of MD-1-4 level award in the XIII national competition From Foreman to Managing Director: the Most Socially Effective Metal and Industry-wide agreements with labour unions Group plans to cover shop-floor supervisors.
Mining Company contain dedicated HSE sections.
In 2017, Tracking employee engagement EVRAZ aims to improve employee engagement Key projects organisation-wide.
Managing employee engagement is an important and significant tool for the Group The staff costs in the 2017 budget have been Financial motivation.
Projects are underway to to influence employee work efficiency and kept at the level of the costs for 2016, in line improve the payroll system, including analysing motivation.
Optimisation measures have and revising incentive tools organisation-wide to been implemented at enterprises to ensure ensure that they are properly motivating employees At the end of Q3 2016, phase one of the wage rises, including indexation stipulated in while remaining aligned with business goals and Tracking Employee Engagement project labour agreements.
An employee engagement index has been measured based on AON Hewitts model.
Transform HR: the HR Service Solutions Centre Transform HR.
The HR SSC project has been SSC project has been launched with a goal of launched and will be expanded to business A large pilot survey was conducted as a part fully standardising and automating all core HR units in the Urals.
of the project at four business units in the functions, and transferring the full HR workflow Urals and Siberia.
The project seeks to paint into SSC.
The project aims to improve workflow Headcount.
In 2017, the key focus will be on an accurate picture of the level of employee quality and transparency, and to reduce related combining the efforts of HR and other vital engagement and find ways to increase costs.
To date, three Group enterprises have corporate functions to develop a sustainable employee engagement.
Future surveys are been transferred to SSC.
process improvement system through EBSplanned for additional EVRAZ business units.
com 89 Community relations Our approach EVRAZ strives to maintain an open dialogue with the communities surrounding its areas Community relations awards in 2016 of operation.
The Group pays its taxes responsibly and cares for the wellbeing of its employees.
Alexey Kushnarev, managing director Organisation-wide, operations are conducted in accordance with federal and local legislation.
of EVRAZ NTMK, has received a letter Managing directors and regional vice presidents take responsibility for communicating with local of gratitude for his contribution towards governments.
HSE directors duties include ensuring that plant operations meet all applicable improving childrens health.
Every year, rules and regulations.
The regional corporate communications centres collaborate with non-profit about 1,200 children of NTMK employees organisations on charity, environmental, social, educational and sport projects.
Nizhny Tagil city government Relations with local communities EVRAZ NTMK: Best Philanthropists of Sverdlovsk region.
EVRAZ NTMK was EVRAZ numerous contributions to local as cultural, educational and sport projects, awarded as best philanthropist of the economies benefit the communities where its city infrastructure, and environmental impact Sverdlovsk region among the companies operations are based.
EVRAZ honours its from ferrous metallurgy.
responsibilities as a taxpayer and employer, The Group fosters lasting partnerships with providing development, training programmes, Mining and smelting trade union of Russia these local communities and aims to improve social protection and regionally competitive the quality of life in the many regions where salaries to its employees.
EVRAZ values its Evrazruda: Mining and steel enterprise it conducts business.
It has implemented partnership with local governments and is of high social effectiveness.
Evrazruda socially responsible programmes benefitting committed to solving the issues facing the was awarded first place in the nomination special needs children, veterans and the regions where it operates.
Work with young people elderly, and childrens homes, as well EVRAZ for Kids EVRAZ for Cities EVRAZ: City of Friends City of Ideas EVRAZ for Sport 90 CSR report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 EVRAZ for Kids This programmes main goal is to support children who have special needs and or are socially In 2016, EVRAZ sponsored the Russiavulnerable.
EVRAZ organises special treatment and voluntary support for children with cerebral palsy wide Dream ski charity programme, and their families in the Urals and Siberia, and supports socially vulnerable children.
Every year, which is aimed at promoting downhill skiing EVRAZ sponsors specialised medical treatment for more than 500 children with special needs.
as part of a rehabilitation programme for The company has implemented cutting-edge treatment techniques, including phototherapy, art therapy, children with cerebral palsy.
In 2016, as aquatic therapy, hippotherapy, and adaptive sports programmes, as well as massage courses for the part of this programme, EVRAZ helped children and training programmes for their parents, volunteers and teachers.
launch a new project in Kemerovo region by providing specialised equipment that is Each year, EVRAZ provides holiday presents for children in Russia.
It also organises annual volunteer used when conducting lessons with children.
drives that provide books, office stationery, sport equipment and clothes for the start of the school year.
The first group of children have already completed their course of rehabilitation lessons.
In December 2016, the Dream Activities in 2016: ski project opened a new course in the city Kachkanar, Russia EVRAZ sponsored a new diagnostic and preventative care centre to treat diseases of Mezhdurechensk, Russia.
affecting the vision of children with disabilities Kachkanar, Russia EVRAZ purchased sports equipment for a specialised kindergarten and school, swimming pool, and hospital to successfully develop adaptive sports activities and improve the physical and psychological rehabilitation of children with disabilities Mezhdurechensk, Siberia, Russia EVRAZ sponsored hippotherapy for 80 children Urals, Russia EVRAZ sponsored 800 individual art therapy lessons, 20 group phototherapy sessions and 600 individual hippotherapy lessons Siberia, Russia EVRAZ bought comfortable new buses for two orphanages Urals, Russia EVRAZ sponsored 6 training workshops for teachers and volunteers, and organised nearly 20 exhibitions of photos and pictures from EVRAZ for Kids participants Portland, Oregon, USA EVRAZ sponsored First Growth Children and Family Charities, benefitting the YWCA of Clark County, Randall Childrens Hospital, New Avenues for Youth, Metropolitan Family Services and Friends of the Children EVRAZ: City of Friends City of Ideas Devoted to mans best friend This programmes main goal is to improve the quality of life in Kachkanar, Russia, by developing in summer 2016, Kachkanar got a new culture, sport, and education, as well as by helping the elderly and children with special needs.
statue of a dog nicknamed Druzhok Russian Non-profit organisations present social projects to a jury, which then selects 10-15 winners who for buddy or friend.
It is both a monument receive up to RUB100,000 to implement their projects.
and a collections box for donations to help homeless animals.
The project was initiated by ninth-grade student Slava Shashkin.
Activities in 2016: In Kachkanar, 45 projects were presented as part of the EVRAZ: City of Friends City of Ideas initiative and 13 of them received monetary grants A total of 70 people took part in the competition The winners included the Adapted Physical Education project to provide new sport equipment to promote physical education lessons for children with disabilities, and the Kitchen at Home project to equip a kitchen and hold cooking lessons for children from orphanages www.
com 91 EVRAZ for Cities EVRAZ supports the local infrastructure in the cities where it operates by donating funds to In 2016, EVRAZ sponsored the reconstruct roads, parks and theatres, as well as to equip schools, colleges and medical centres.
construction of a new three-storey house in Russias Tula Region for the people who lived in the old stately home Activities in 2016: of steelworker Mosolov.
The building, an Nizhny Tagil and Kachkanar, Russia EVRAZ provided sand and road material for municipal eighteenth century architectural monument, infrastructure was in critical condition.
With EVRAZ help, the Urals, Russia EVRAZ helped equip and renovate educational facilities, including schools, technical families were able to move into safe new flats.
schools and institutes Siberia, Russia EVRAZ continued the renovation of Steelworkers Park, opening an exercise facility and installing a sculpture of a mother bear with her cubs bears are the symbol of Siberia Novokuznetsk, Russia EVRAZ sponsored road repairs and helped put up iron fences along the citys central streets Novokuznetsk, Russia EVRAZ six-year partnership with the local drama theatre continued, allowing it to bring plays for children and adults to Mezhdurechensk, Russia free of charge Novokuznetsk, Russia EVRAZ neighbourhood courtyard improvement programme has been ongoing 2007, during which time around 300 of the citys neighbourhood courtyards have been renovated Mezhdurechensk, Russia EVRAZ helped provide a playground in the towns main square Urals, Russia EVRAZ sponsored a contest to award MBA grants to students with the most innovative ideas Krivoy Rog, Ukraine Evraz Sukha Balka sponsored the completion of a section of Nevskaya Street EVRAZ for Sport EVRAZ supports amateur and professional sports teams, as well as individual youth and adult In 2016, EVRAZ organised a series athletes, by providing sport equipment and donating money to help them prepare for and of city festivals and 5km races participate in tournaments.
in Nizhny Tagil and Novokuznetsk.
The goal was to promote sport and a healthy lifestyle, as well as to Activities in 2016: raise money for charitable needs.
Some Nizhny Tagil and Kachkanar, Russia EVRAZ bought sport equipment, organised tournaments and 2,000 people took part in the races, and sponsored athletes participation in sports tournaments for athletics, taekwondo, sambo, hockey, football, nearly 6,000 attended the city festivals.
All kettlebell lifting, and shooting funds raised were donated to help develop Kachkanar, Russia EVRAZ sponsored the Olymp youth football team to participate in an international adaptive sports programmes in Russias tournament in Sochi and they won first place Nizhny Tagil, Russia EVRAZ helped promote steel workout by buying special sport equipment and regional cities.
organising the first ever contest in the city Nizhny Tagil, Russia EVRAZ sponsored BREAK DOWN T 2016, the first Russia-wide contemporary dance festival, which saw some 200 dancers compete Siberia, Russia EVRAZ supported popular sport events, including skiing, running and orienteering competitions Alberta, Canada EVRAZ sponsored the Enbridge Alberta Ride to Conquer Cancer, a two-day, 200-km bicycle ride through the Canadian Rockies that raised US$7.8 million for cancer research, clinical trials, enhanced care and the discovery of new cancer therapies at 16 cancer centres across Alberta 92 CSR report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Participation in public organisations and initiatives Non-profit partnership Rail Commission Non-profit National Association Steel Construction partnership of Mineral Resources Rail Equipment Development 1 Russian Steel Examination Producers Union Association 2001 2004 2007 2014 Production associations and partnerships Labour unions 1 In 2016, Russian Steel celebrated Management associations 2008 2012 its 15th anniversary 2016 Managers Association Russian The All-Russian union Steelworkers of employees of coal Association industry EVRAZ continued the promotion of steel structure usage as a substitute for concrete in order to increase beams sales In 2016, the Steel Construction Development Association SCDA continued to improve steel design codes and promote the use of steel structures in multi-storey civil buildings.
Over the year, around 200,000 square metres of residential and parking space featuring steel structures was designed, and the work was begun.
This created additional demand for around 8,000 tonnes of EVRAZ beams.
In addition, the SCDA published numerous manuals to simplify the design of fire-engineering and The SCDA was created to promote the steel structures, as well as brochures to raise awareness about constructing multi-storey car parks use of steel structures as a substitute and middle-rise residential buildings.
The SCDA also held a contest for students, Steel2Real, which for concrete and other non-steel involved more than 130 participants from 23 universities.
The winners received the chance to visit materials in construction in Russia.
the Steel Construction Institute in London to gain new experience and ideas.
It unites steelmakers, steel fabricators and erectors, research institutes, design engineers and architects.
