46 Strategic report Our people Our people Summary Our global people strategy aims to deliver sustainable growth, by creating a great place for our people to work.
by frontline managers in their day-toCulture creating a Employee engagement day work with their teams, through winning culture through listening to our people coaching and development, recognition, greater collaboration We have previously conducted our communication and showing integrity.
We believe the work we do is truly Global People Survey approximately Our opportunity area is to have local important and we strive to be a trusted every 18 months.
It provides valuable managers and their teams feeling more partner for consumers and clients.
insights into employees views and their strongly connected to their local and This is reflected in our culture, the way engagement with the business.
Our the global leadership, so they feel more our people behave, and in the way we most recent survey was in May 2015 and fully engaged in Experian-wide strategy collaborate across the Group.
achieved an excellent response, with and plans.
As in previous years, we 84% participation.
This again exceeded have actions under way at all levels of We are focused on delivering the the external high-performing norm and the business, which fully involve our best solutions for our clients and for ensured the results fully reflected our employees and aim to address the issues consumers.
To do this, we foster a employees views.
raised and leverage our strengths.
culture of collaboration between our people, and our clients and consumers.
Given the significant leadership and Talent strengthening and We focus on engaging consumers and business changes in the year preceding diversifying our talent pool putting them at the heart of what we the survey, we were very pleased to see Our talent strategy aims to drive the do, and help our clients do the same that the level of sustainable employee attraction, growth and retention of with their customers.
We provide our engagement had remained stable from a deep pool of talented employees, clients with the information and tools for the previous survey at 78% 79% in who reflect our global reach and our them to make the best decisions as they 2013.
However, we did hear from our belief in the value of diversity.
It then manage and grow their businesses.
employees that we could do a better job focuses on releasing the talent of every of managing communications through We want to create winning outcomes for employee, to deliver our performance change and we have plans under consumers and for our clients, and we goals.
Performance for Growth and our way to set more globally consistent believe we do this best when we work diversity and inclusion D&I agenda standards and processes around change together collaboratively as One Experian are just two of the many ways in which communications, as well as up-skilling with a client focus.
This is reflected in we aim to achieve this for all our people.
Our highest performing our strategic initiatives.
We also continue to invest in targeted category in the survey was Immediate leadership development, as part of management with 82% favourable strengthening our leadership pipeline.
This demonstrates the strong engagement being created Strategic report Our people 47 To achieve this, our people strategy focuses on culture and engagement, and talent.
Culture creating a winning culture through greater collaboration Employee engagement listening to our people Talent strengthening and diversifying our talent pool 48 Strategic report Our people Our people continued Key people facts Gender split of employees Generational diversity 45% 55% 37 49% of our global of our global is the average age of our workforce employees employees of our workforce is now classed are female are male as Millennial We have a significant Millennial Performance for Growth Continued emphasis on employee base 49% globally and Performance for Growth is our globally diversity and inclusion experience greater attrition across consistent performance management Our objective is to create an environment this group than for other generational process, which is now well embedded in which everyone can flourish, groups.
It is well understood that across the organisation.
It aligns irrespective of their gender, ethnicity, Millennials are less likely to see long individual goals to the business strategy thinking style, experience, age, sexual tenure as a career goal and so we have and enables employees to access a orientation, physical ability and worked hard to enhance retention wide range of learning and development economic background.
This aligns to levels in this key employee group.
We activities, through our Education our talent strategy and the inclusiveness have developed an in-house predictive Express learning management system.
and sense of belonging embodied in analytics tool that considers a range of The process encourages ongoing our culture.
Each region has agreed factors to identify individuals who are performance and development D&I action plans based on our global at highest risk of leaving.
We can then conversations for continuing personal framework and we track progress as target pre-emptive actions.
growth, leading to even stronger part of our Global Talent Review.
In continuing our roadmap for D&I, As of December 2015, 45% of our We continue to align performance with which we see as critical to building highglobal employee base are female reward and this year will introduce performance teams, we have developed 7,591 and 55% are male 9,423.
In a simplified and globally aligned a virtual learning webinar called Get terms of ethnicity, 28% 4,740 classify reward process, allowing managers Inclusive, which will help managers and themselves as white and 14% 2,394 as to make total compensation decisions employees understand how to leverage non-white.
The remaining 58% 9,880 across their teams, including globally the diversity in their teams and to be are not classified, either because local dispersed teams.
To enable this, we aware of, and limit, any bias in their legislation does not allow us to request are implementing a leading-edge HR IT people-related decisions.
This will also this data or because employees elect system, to provide global consistency allow managers and employees to learn not to disclose it.
The average age of and stronger governance and facilitate from each other, creating awareness and our workforce is 37. global alignment of reward practices support for valuing and benefiting from linked to performance.
the rich diversity within our organisation.
Senior leader diversity mix September September September September September September December December 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total no.
of senior leaders 87 87 90 85 89 92 91 94 Gender: Female senior leaders % 11 13% 14 16% 16 18% 16 19% 17 20% 20 22% 23 25% 23 24% Ethnic origin % non-white 6 7% 4 5% 6 7% 8 9% 8 9% 9 10% 11 12% 11 12% numbers exclude vacancies Strategic report Our people 49 Global employee split North America Latin America 39% 18% UK and Ireland EMEA Asia Pacific 23% 20% To continue as a high-performing Global talent and leadership High Performance Master Class company, we need to ensure we are development programmes Launched in 2016, this externally developing our greatest asset our Building a strong talent and leadership facilitated year-long programme is a people.
It is especially important that we pipeline is a significant part of our targeted offering for talented senior have rich diversity at the senior levels talent agenda and we have a suite of leaders in our most critical roles globally.
that are responsible for our strategic global programmes to accelerate our It aims to help leaders create a highthinking and decision making.
We revisit performance environment and drive like many organisations, we experience these programmes regularly, to ensure significantly enhanced performance a disproportionate decline in the number they deliver the maximum impact, and outcomes over the course of the of women employed beyond middle continue to add new programmes to programme, and to take these lessons management levels.
At the leadership drive our agenda forwards.
into the future to help Experian reach its level, the split of women to men is 24:76. full potential.
CEO Forum While this compares positively with This development forum exposes senior Experian Business Network EBN the FTSE 100 peer group, we have a talent to the CEO and other senior We launched this development network number of actions in place to improve executives.
We select members from the for high-potential and diverse emerging this.
A new commitment this year has leadership succession talent pool.
In total, 570 been to invest in global membership of the forums creation in 2008, 31 29% employees have been or are currently the Everywoman network an online of the 106 participants have received part of the EBN.
Given the numbers self-development platform that provides a notable promotion, of whom 9 29% of participants and the length of time learning and networking resources to were women.
In total, 26 women 25% that the programme has been running, support women in their lives and careers.
have participated in our CEO Forum.
in 2014 we started to track promotion This platform is equally beneficial for men rates for participants attending in the and will be available to all employees.
Of the 201 people The current picture, and our progress who attended EBN in the last two years, at the leadership level, are shown in the 18 have been promoted, which is ahead table opposite, Senior leader diversity of the average for Experian.
Details of our Board diversity can be promoted were women.
p64 found in the Corporate governance report.
Employees by region Global cost profile Labour 53% North America 6,700 Data 14% Latin America 3,100 Marketing 11% United Kingdom 4,000 IT 8% EMEA Asia Pacific 3,200 Central Activities 2% Other 12% 50 Strategic report Our people Our people continued Emerging Talent Network The most recent review, as at We saw marked improvement from In 2015, we launched a similar 31 December 2015, highlighted that: 2015, with 88% confidence in the development programme to the EBN incumbents of our critical global A 98% of senior leadership roles for talent earlier in their careers.
We roles, compared to 58% confidence in have successors ready to provide piloted this programme in three regions, the previous review year.
This year we emergency cover 2014: 95%, 52% and all regions are now looking to also put an additional spotlight on the have at least two successors who are implement similar initiatives.
We now quality of succession cover into these ready now or ready within two years provide a range of talent development most critical A roles globally.
2014: 54% and 72% have at least one programmes to support development successor ready now or ready within Talent mobility also remains a key focus, throughout the leadership pipeline.
We have even stronger as building global capability is crucial Talent and succession planning coverage in the ready in two to four to our sustained success.
We are Succession planning is also integral to years category, which is now at 77% continuing to see an increase in global our talent strategy, ensuring we have 2014: 74%.
moves at more junior levels.
Of the 123 the leadership resources to achieve new global moves made in 2015, nearly Our focus continues to be on our strategic objectives.
The executive half 45% were below executive grade.
developing the strength and depth leadership and the Boards Nomination We are also seeing greater movement of of our talent pipeline.
As well as and Corporate Governance Committee talent on local contracts, helping us to reviewing top talent and progress regularly review our senior leadership control costs.
against our talent management plans, succession plans.
we also assess whether we have the best people in our most critical roles.
Empowering women in Experian Everywoman has been chosen to support our D&I agenda to enable a greater contribution by women and accelerate career paths, thereby supporting women to achieve their potential and balance the gender gap from mid-management upwards.
Were committed to giving all women in our company the opportunities they need to succeed.
Im excited to become Experians global ambassador for women in Experian and hope our new partnership will be a step forward in helping more women get ahead in their career.
Joy Griffiths Global Managing Director, Decision Analytics and Chairman, Asia Pacific Strategic report Our stories 51 Bringing transparency to Our stories your healthcare bills Unlocking the potential of data in Experian health Healthcare costs are rising in the USA, and it can be a struggle to understand how much you might need to pay: What procedures does your insurance cover?
What portion of the total bill will you be responsible for?
Are you eligible for financial assistance?
How will your doctor co-ordinate your care after discharge?
Figuring this out adds stress when you least need it.
Many physicians and hospitals now use our data and software to help simplify the administrative process for you, and help to provide the answers you need, often before youve even stepped in the front door.
After you leave theyll also keep in touch with follow-up care, including reminding you to fill in your prescription and schedule your follow-up appointments.
You can also conveniently settle your bills, manage your accounts, schedule appointments 995 and view lab results, all through our online and mobile portals.
million eligibility And the future?
Our experts are working on unlocking it for you right now.
checks every year Watch our story online 40% of the hospital bill total is 54% now settled of hospitals in the USA use by patients at least one of our solutions
