52 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Summary Every day, we help millions of people make the most of their data to get fair and affordable access to essential, everyday services.
Every day, we help millions of people Through our unique social innovation to immediately check the identity of make the most of their data to get fair programme, we work with partners to new customers, so they can process and affordable access to essential, develop, test and scale up new products applications efficiently.
that enable financial inclusion as well as million credit reports a day around the generate revenue for our business.
Our world, to help clients make informed From our credit bureaux and wide range social innovation products helped 2.7 decisions.
This means people can get of identity and verification solutions to million people access essential services faster access to everyday services from our extensive data assets and expertise, in the year ended 31 March 2016.
We are banks, retailers and other providers.
we help people and businesses protect, delighted to report that we have helped manage and make the most of their data.
We equip people with the knowledge 5.4 million more people since launching We draw on this to create a rich picture and skills they need to understand their our social innovation programme in that helps banks and service providers financial profile and maintain a strong 2014.
As a result, we have achieved our make informed decisions and offer credit credit rating.
Services like Credit Tracker target of helping 5 million people by and services at fair rates to people and in the USA and CreditExpert in the UK 2018, two years ahead of schedule.
give millions of people secure online These achievements and our commercial access to their credit history.
We support Research from the World Bank shows success are founded on the passion millions more every year through our that credit bureaux can play an essential of our people, our dedication to call centres, websites and social media role in facilitating and expanding access safeguarding data and privacy, and our channels.
In North America, our teams to finance for millions of people who commitment to operating responsibly.
of Credit Educators provide one-to-one would otherwise be excluded from support to help people understand their mainstream credit and services.
As Today, everyday credit profile and the steps they can take the worlds largest operator of credit Our products and services have a to improve it.
The impact can be lifebureaux, we help people and small profound effect on society, helping changing see feedback from a Credit businesses borrow within their means p54 people gain access to essential, everyday Educator customer later in this section.
and access the services they need more services, from housing, credit and loans affordably.
At the same time, we help Through our Credit Services business, to mobile phone contracts and utilities.
them protect their data, prevent fraud we help enterprises to build their Many of these are part of our Credit and guard against identity theft.
All of financial profile so they can gain Services business, which represents this and more sits at the heart of our access to the services and borrowing 50% of our global revenue.
sustainable business model that unlocks they need to grow.
This is particularly growth and new opportunities for Without a financial identity, people and critical for small business owners people, business and society.
small businesses cannot demonstrate who are otherwise forced to fund their to lenders that they will be able to repay enterprise through personal loans, credit, which means they cannot get often putting their personal credit loans, or are only offered services at high profile at risk.
In Brazil, we help small interest rates.
Our products like Identity businesses protect their financial Authenticate and Prove-ID enable clients Strategic report Corporate responsibility 53 Highlights 2016 Social innovation Credit education 5.4m 25,000 We have exceeded our target We help entrepreneurs of reaching an additional five understand how to gain million people ahead of 2018 better access to credit profiles against fraud through our MeProteja Empresas programme, Making a difference which offers an automatic alert to notify businesses about suspicious information with microfinance added to our database.
In 2016, our new Commercial Credit Score Simulator We knew when we started our MicroAnalytics business that we wanted to make a enabled thousands of small and medium really big difference.
So it feels great to know that its working and were helping enterprises in the USA to predict the millions of people get access to finance.
We started working with a large bank in effect of different options on their credit Kenya, where there are a lot of people who dont have access to finance.
To get a score before applying for a loan.
In South loan, youd have to go through a process that lasts weeks, and youd have to bring Africa, we partnered with The National so many documents along to the bank with you.
So we told the bank we could turn Small Business Chamber to host a this arduous process into an instant one, so customers can quickly log on using series of workshops to help over 25,000 their mobiles to get loans immediately.
It works because our technology creates an entrepreneurs understand how to gain accurate risk profile for each client.
This means that when someone clicks on the better access to credit.
menu requesting a loan, the system uses that risk profile to define the maximum Fewer than one in five people in amount that the bank can lend them.
And it all takes place instantaneously.
emerging markets have access to Were only talking small amounts of money for lending.
But as But for a lot of people in Kenya, thats all they need.
It means a family can pay for mobile networks reach more and more their groceries, it means a textiles entrepreneur can buy the fabric they need to remote areas, many people who do not make their shirts.
The system has been live for a while and processes in excess have a bank account do have a mobile of one million loan applications every month, demonstrating that access to instant phone and can access mobile money loans is a clear need in Kenya.
Since then weve helped more banks in even transfer services.
We are using our data, more countries.
So its just good to know that were helping all these small analytics and expertise to enable people entrepreneurs, and employees, and families everywhere were making or small businesses in emerging markets a difference for them day-to-day.
These small loans can transform peoples lives and Sammy Hamoudi Product and Delivery Director, support economic development see Experian MicroAnalytics opposite for Sammy Hamoudis story.
We are also pioneering innovative ways to help people without a bank account or financial history build a credit profile by embracing alternative forms of data, such as rental and utility payments, that have not traditionally been included in financial profiles.
54 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Encouraging the use of alternative data is Working with partners around the help schoolchildren aged five to eleven an essential part of our business strategy.
world, we support financial education explore the practical and emotional Experian is a member of the Policy and programmes and Experian experts aspects of money, through our Values, Economic Research Council PERC volunteer their time and skills to equip Money and Me free online financial alternative data initiative, a publicpeople with the knowledge they need to education resource.
private partnership that aims to increase understand and manage their finances.
Financial education is integral to helping financial inclusion around the world by Our experts have helped over 15,000 people avoid unmanageable debt, but using innovative information solutions.
people through our Real Dreams if they do get into debt we offer advice We also engage with policymakers to programme in Brazil and we are and support to help them get their lives develop regulations that promote the supporting the Brazilian Governments back on track.
Over 5.9 million people use of positive data in credit bureaux.
strategy for financial education in and small businesses in Brazil are now In the UK, one in eight of our UK credit elementary schools through a pilot enrolled on our Recovery Portal.
This reports already includes utility data, programme that will be delivered to all online service brings people and lenders helping people strengthen their credit public schools across the country.
together to discuss and renegotiate reports and get quick and easy access to debts face-to-face.
Through the portal In the UK and Ireland, we have also competitive credit deals, widening access over 1.9 million individual debts have developed online and practical resources to everyday services.
By adding on-time been repaid, collectively worth over to support financial education for young utility payments to US credit reports US$2.5 billion.
A series of interactive storybooks over the past two years, we have seen a and supporting materials for teachers significant improvement in credit ratings for those people where this information has been included.
Where utility data was added, in these cases it halved the Credit Educator in practice number of people with low credit scores, who typically get fewer credit offers and feedback from a customer in higher interest rates on loans.
the USA Through our RentBureau in the USA and Rental Exchange in the UK, we have I havent always known how important it is to have and maintain a healthy credit added data on millions of social and profile, and when I found out later in life it was too late.
Over the years, I have done private housing tenants, to help improve my own research and have learned that I had to get myself together and figure out their credit scores.
In the USA, by adding a way to repair the damage I had done to my creditworthiness.
I wasnt sure how the rental data we had to those files, I was going to start the process and what resources were available to help me get the number of people with poor credit started.
With your guidance and introduction to a Credit Educator, I finally ratings fell by nearly 20%.
Opening doors I had bought a car out of necessity but I still didnt quite know the status of my credit affairs.
My next step was to purchase a home for myself and my We are investing in innovative products family.
Speaking with a Credit Educator about personal credit needs and plans that can open doors for many people and reaffirmed and motivated me to remain conscious about the importance of credit change their lives for the better.
Without the understanding that I only had to request accounts to be Having a financial identity is vital to updated or removed from my record, I would not have been able to buy a home.
unlock fair and affordable access to By removing several negative accounts from my report, I have dramatically essential services, but in some countries improved my credit score and have bought my first home!
a lack of public records makes it even harder for people to prove who they are J. Aikens Credit Educator customer in the USA and show any record of financial history.
We are piloting a new product, E-Link, that will help people in India build up a credit profile from the payments they make through self-help groups.
E-Link aims to use the information on lending and repayments within these groups to enable individual members to build up a financial identity and profile that can be included in mainstream credit bureaux.
Strategic report Our stories 55 Bringing business Our stories ideas to life Its something I really believe in, that a business has to support the community in which it operates.
So when an entrepreneur we were helping gave me a big hug, I knew that what we were doing at Experian was really making a difference.
Id nominated the Aine Business Incubator for Experians support.
It helps entrepreneurs bring their business plans to life.
As well as giving them the incubator grant, we look for ways we could support them with more than just money.
Some of my colleagues and I brought together the business incubator entrepreneurs and another charity, Nos Quartiers ont des Talents, to hold a day of workshops in our Paris offices.
We ran workshops on elevator pitches, digital marketing, data protection and other things Experian specialises in.
There was one lady who really stood out for me Jocelyne.
She wanted to set up a business importing Jamaican fruit and vegetables to some of the top restaurants in Paris.
Jocelyne gave a really amazing pitch, just off the cuff.
It sounded so tasty I was really hungry by the end of it!
She had been quite quiet at the beginning of the day.
But after that elevator pitch, you could see her becoming more engaged.
And at the end of the day, she was so enthusiastic that she came up and gave me a huge hug.
Joanna Couture Sales Effectiveness Director, Experian France 56 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Community spend Helping fraud victims US$7.7m 45,000 In 2016 we gave back 3% In 2016, we supported 45,000 more to the community victims of fraud and helped them to prove their identity and rebuild their credit profiles review the quality of the data we receive Community investment and strive to ensure the integrity of the information in each credit profile.
We 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 alert data providers to inconsistencies or Funds from Experian plc 3,272 3,310 omissions we find, to help them improve the quality of their data.
Financial donations and investments from Experian subsidiaries 1,594 1,565 We also advise people on how to protect Employee time volunteered 1,296 1,173 their personal data and offer support Gifts in kind 620 503 for victims of identity theft to help them Management costs 957 937 resolve issues.
In 2016, our teams in the Total from Experian 7,739 7,488 UK and the USA supported over 45,000 As % of Benchmark PBT 0.68% 0.61% victims of fraud, with individual case workers helping them to prove their Employee fundraising 937 1,109 identity and rebuild their credit profile.
Out of work volunteering enabled by Experian 304 643 Total value of all giving 8,980 9,240 Engaging our people As % of Benchmark PBT 0.79% 0.75% We want our employees to know that their work is making a difference and For more information on how these figures are calculated, see the Reporting Principles and Methodology at www.
we encourage them to get involved by volunteering their time.
More than 6,000 volunteers supported our community and services that they can only get by Safeguarding data and privacy programmes in 2016. sharing their personal information with We hold data on 918 million people and lenders and other organisations.
Securing that Our annual One Young World data is vital to maintain consumer trust competition encourages young minds We aim to find the right balance between and our licence to operate.
across the business to look at how we protecting privacy and using data to champion responsible business, and give our clients the insights they need Everyone working with us be they propose ideas that positively impact the to make responsible lending decisions, an employee, supplier or partner is communities where we operate.
This provide access to services and deliver responsible for the security of the data years winners represented Experian relevant and timely marketing.
Our Global Information Values at the One Young World summit in engage with policymakers to support the set clear guidelines for how we manage Bangkok, Thailand, which brought development of regulations that respond and use data in compliance with all together over 1,300 young people from to peoples concerns about data privacy relevant laws and we invest heavily nearly 200 countries.
The summit is a and their desire for access to fair and in safeguards to protect data from unique opportunity to learn from some affordable credit services.
physical threats and evolving risks of the most influential leaders in the of cyber-attacks.
The quality of data in peoples credit world and bring this knowledge back profiles can affect their ability to into the business.
This years winners People value their privacy and want to access life-changing services, such as initiated two financial education protect it.
At the same time, they want mortgages and insurance.
We carefully programmes aimed at young women fair and affordable access to credit Strategic report Corporate responsibility 57 Hours volunteered Reduced emissions 38,000 6% Time volunteered by We have reduced our our people to support total carbon emissions by 6% financial education and in comparison to last year community initiatives in India and people tackling medical Respecting human rights Minimising our debt, and one social innovation product environmental impact Respecting human rights is a helping vulnerable people gain access to fundamental responsibility for any Across our operations, we are working to essential services.
Our policies are aligned with cut carbon emissions by improving energy the principles of the United Nations efficiency, promoting video conferencing as Volunteering gives our people Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
an alternative to travel and raising awareness opportunities to develop new skills among employees.
and experience, as well as using their Our Global Code of Conduct sets clear expertise to support their communities.
expectations for employees to uphold We met our original 2016 carbon target Across the business, our people these principles in the way we run our a year early in 2014 15, achieving a 19% volunteered over 38,000 hours to business.
The Code is supported by reduction in COequivalent CO e 2 2 support financial education and specific policies that cover human rights emissions per US$1,000 of revenue over two community initiatives in 2016.
Over 230 risks related to human resources, health years.
This year, we achieved our new 2016 employees helped more than 15,000 and safety, anti-bribery and corruption, target by reducing our total carbon footprint children, expectant mothers and microand labour practices in the supply chain.
by 6% to 54,503 tonnes of CO e. By 2018, we 2 entrepreneurs in Brazil through our We believe our risks in this area are low.
are aiming to reduce our CO e emissions per 2 Real Dreams programme.
Our teams US$1,000 of revenue by 5%.
In the digital era, the right to privacy is an in Bulgaria welcomed refugees with increasing focus in relation to business workshops and language sessions for Our carbon footprint from the energy we and human rights.
Protecting data privacy children, as well as financial education use in our offices and data centres, and from is a priority for our business.
In support of Stop Hunger business travel, is our biggest environmental responsibly and balance the right to privacy Now, more than 360 Experian volunteers impact.
To cut energy use in our buildings, with the benefits that data and analytics prepared over 59,000 meals for we have installed energy efficient LED can bring for people, business and society.
underprivileged school pupils in the USA.
lighting and we are introducing free cooling using fresh air rather than air conditioning to regulate the temperature in selected Environment data centres in the UK and the USA.
Use of video conferencing continues to grow and Emissions from: 2016 2015 is contributing to an overall reduction in Scope 1 Thousand tonnes of CO2e 4.4 4.8 business travel emissions.
Location-based Scope 2 Thousand tonnes of CO e 38.0 40.9 2 Strategic report Market-based Scope 2 Thousand new reporting requirement for FY16 tonnes of CO e 36.6 2 The Strategic report was approved by Scope 1 and Scope 2 normalised by Kilograms of a duly authorised Committee of the revenue using location-based emissions CO e per US$1,000 9.3 9.5 2 Board of directors on 10 May 2016 We have reported on all the emission sources in line with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and signed on its behalf by: and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our Group financial statements.
There are no material exclusions from this data.
The data has been prepared in accordance with the UK Charles Brown Governments Environmental Reporting Guidance 2013 version.
Detailed information on Experians Company Secretary environmental performance and the methodology for the measurement of greenhouse gas emissions is available at www.
10 May 2016 We are committed to protecting our organisation and those people at risk from exposure to slavery or people trafficking in our supply chain, both via directly employed staff and staff working on our behalf via third-party vendors.
Further information is available on www.
