A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS In April 2017 Ferrexpo Poltava Mining will celebrate 40 years of successfully producing pellets.
This achievement would not have been possible without the support of Ferrexpos employees, local communities and government.
Throughout this time the Group has had no major labour actions or production stoppages.
Ferrexpos ability to create a competitive, world class operating asset has ensured consistent demand for its product, enabling the Group to be a stable and reliable employer as well as a dependable tax payer to the government.
As a result, Ferrexpo is the largest exporter of iron ore pellets in Ukraine and proudly provides a premium raw material to the best steel mills in the world.
The Group employs over 10,000 staff and contractors in the Poltava region of the VIKTOR LOTOUS CHAIRMAN, CORPORATE SOCIAL country and always aims to improve local RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE living standards and ensure responsible management of the natural environment.
The Groups approach to responsible Ferrexpo strongly believes that acting in a responsible business encompasses the following manner benefits the communities and countries in which priorities: a strong health and safety track record: it operates and ensures the long-term sustainability of its a positive, significant economic business model.
While a summary of Ferrexpos approach contribution: to responsible business is provided in this report, the a supportive community that attracts and retains employees: and Groups 2016 Responsible Business Report will provide minimised environmental impact.
This report will be released in Ferrexpo aims to be a role model for 2Q2017.
companies with assets in Ukraine, including attracting international investors and capital, setting the standards for mining performance and operating efficiencies and remaining a good FOR MORE INFORMATION SEE OUR RESPONSIBLE corporate citizen.
In 2016, Ferrexpo BUSINESS REPORT ON WWW.
COM published its first standalone Responsible Business Report with respect to activities in 2015.
Ferrexpo intends to further develop its responsible business understanding and reporting mechanisms to best in classlevels.
I am pleased with what we have accomplished so far and look forward to continuing to create and share value with all associated with Ferrexpo.
FERREXPO PLC 37 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK A key priority during the year was the The CSR Committee, which is accountable The diagrams below highlight the CSR development of a reporting system for for the areas covered by the Responsible governance structure at Ferrexpo and a corporate responsibility performance data.
Business Report, met four times in 2016, framework of how responsible business As a result, reporting became centralised and assists the Board in its oversight of all considerations in green are fully and data has been collected through the responsible business related activities.
embedded within the corporate strategy.
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE THE BOARD Oversight of Responsible Business matters and performance CSR COMMITTEE1 Chairman Viktor Lotous Members Steve Lucas, Kostyantin Zhevago, Bert Nacken, Greg Nortje Secretary David Leonard EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Focus on priorities and execution of responsible business activities HEALTH & SAFETY COMMUNITY WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT & SUSTAINABLE RESOURCES STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS LICENCE TO OPERATE Employees Communities Suppliers Customers Capital providers Government and contractors and shareholders and regulators 1 Viktor Lotous FPM Chief Operating Officer and Head of Managing Board: Steve Lucas Ferrexpo PLC Non-executive Chairman: Bert Nacken independent Non-executive Director: Greg Nortje Group Head of Human Resources: Kostyantin Zhevago CEO OUR APPROACH TO RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS LOGISTICS COMMUNITY Economic development WORKFORCE Future generations MARKETING ENVIRONMENT Biodiversity STAKEHOLDERS Natural habitat Government, investors, Risk suppliers, workforce, PROCESSING communities, customers, WORKFORCE capital providers Diversity RESOURCE Human rights BASE Training HEALTH & SAFETY MINING Working conditions Occupational illness Risk management Zero harm 38 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS ASSESSING KEY ISSUES Youth cultural development Job security Community funding Local community Economic viability of infrastructure operation Where issues are considered to be Consistent quality and material to Ferrexpo stakeholders, they reliability of supply are included in the Groups priorities and managed as part of the responsible business strategy.
The following diagram Learning and development Climate change and energy Community recreational details the keyissues: of personnel efficiency facilities Sustainable resources and BIP Adverse environmental impact Health & safety performance Water management Community educational support INCREASING CURRENT OR POTENTIAL IMPACT ON FERREXPO OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRIORITIES Our people Community Safety Community support donations Occupational health Government relations Diversity Resettlement and closure plans Local hiring Training and development Employment and turnover Contracts and collective bargaining Economic indicators and business ethics Environment Financial performance Energy Local investment including purchasing Water and recruitment Greenhouse gases Direct value generated: Other air emissions Wages Land use and rehabilitation Pensions Code of conduct Responsible purchasing FERREXPO PLC 39 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INCREASING CONCERN TO STAKEHOLDERS STRATEGIC REPORT A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED PEOPLE Attracting and retaining a skilled and diverse workforce is central to Ferrexpos success.
By keeping people engaged, safe, and motivated, the Group maximises the ways in which it can generate value for its stakeholders.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Ferrexpo remains committed to ensuring each member of its KPIs workforce returns home safely at the end of their shift.
This is GOAL PERFORMANCE achieved through the following activities: To operate Two fatalities in 2016 education of health and safety risks: fatality-free provision of health and safety related equipment and procedures: Maintain an injury LTIFR of 1.17 is below the prompt reporting of any safety incidents to ensure that frequency rate below average of the peer group, lessons are learnt: peers.
which we calculate to be rewarding improved safety through key performance 3.88, and includes iron ore objectives: and miners based in Canada, monitoring to ensure long-term health of workforce.
Brazil, Sweden and USA, but it is an increase compared to Health and safety performance is reported to the Board of 2015, reflecting an increase in Directors, CSR Committee and Executive Committee, with incidents from 19 to 22 recommendations made when a safety incident is recorded.
Expenditure on safety training per employee was increased by 16% in 2016, and over 15,000 behavioural safety audits were carried out.
Despite this, it is with deep regret that we report that two fatalities occurred during the reporting period.
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES In February 2016, a light vehicle being driven in the FPM pit In 2016, the Group employed on average 9,182 staff 2015: 9,625 by a security contractor overturned, and the driver suffered and 1,320 contractors 2015: 1,927.
The number of employees fatal injuries.
The Group is now in the process of ensuring all and contractors declined by 1,050 over the course of 2016 9%.
contractor security vehicles have improved safety features.
The decline was managed through natural attrition, contract completions, voluntary separation and early retirements.
These In October 2016, a contractor was overcome by fumes employees were not replaced due to improvements at the Groups while cleaning the interior of a fuel storage tank.
An internal Ukrainian operations, especially in mining.
The table below shows investigation found the individual involved did not follow the that approximately 28% of the Groups total current workforce safety procedures in place for such activities and did not use are female which is in line with 2015.
Overall 21% of all Ferrexpos the safety equipment provided.
Further training is being given managers are women, in line with 2015. to operators involved in this activity.
Female Male Total The injury frequency rate, referred to as the Lost Time Injury Total employees 2,554 6,556 9,110 Frequency Rate, increased to 1.17 in 2016 from 0.96 in 2015, % 28% 72% 100% but generally remains below peer companies.
The primary causal factor of incidents during the reporting period was Of which a failure to comply with existing safety procedures, and or Directors of Ferrexpo PLC 1 7 8 failure to utilise safety equipment provided by the Company.
To improve performance, the focus in 2017 is to ensure EXCO members 0 8 8 operators and supervisors adopt a safety-first approach, Management 218 826 1,044 with expenditures on safety training set to increase further.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Training in skills, safety and other functional areas continued in 2016, with the Company committed to developing the careers of its workforce.
The average training programme includes 16% 206 over 30 hours of learning and the equivalent of 71% of the total INCREASE IN EXPENDITURE ON GRADUATE TRAINEES AND number of Group employees attended at least one training SAFETY TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE APPRENTICES course during the year.
40 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ENVIRONMENT A key priority for the Group is the standardisation and development of a unified environmental policy aimed at increasing production output and efficiency while reducing the impact on the environment by adopting new processes and technology.
REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT As the Company further develops and modernises its operations, KPIs a key target is to reduce its environmental footprint through a number of initiatives such as introducing renewable energy GOAL PERFORMANCE sources, improving energy and CO intensity ratios, and 2 Reduce direct and CO emissions fell 3% 2 studyingbiodiversity.
indirect CO emissions 2 Covering over 5,000 hectares, with mining operations that move Increase percentage Biofuels now account for 6% over 100 million tonnes of material annually and processing renewable energy usage of total energy mix over 30 million tonnes, Ferrexpos activities have the potential in fuel mix to materially impact air quality, water quality, biodiversity and local communities where it operates.
Ferrexpo therefore closely Reduce carbon footprint Total CO emissions in line 2 monitors a wide range of these factors at its operations, to ensure with 2015 -0.4% compliance with local laws and to limit environmental impacts, with the aim of showing year-on-year progress in each area.
The Groups CO emissions are calculated using figures provided 2 by the Companys operations in Ukraine and barging subsidiary on CO EMISSIONS 2 the River Danube, covering the usage of natural gas, diesel, gas Ferrexpo monitors its usage of hydrocarbons and tracks its oil, coal, explosives, lubricants and biofuels.
Indirect sources of carbon dioxide CO as a source of greenhouse gas emissions.
2 CO are also included, such as the consumption of electricity and 2 CO sources range from diesel used for fuelling haul trucks in 2 steam, both of which are purchased from the Ukrainian national the Groups mines, to natural gas used to harden soft pellets grid.
Consumption figures are converted to CO using a number 2 into a final pellet product.
Sources are categorised according to of conversion factors provided by the following sources: whether Ferrexpo is in direct control of the gas being produced e. g. fuel consumption on site, or whether Ferrexpo is indirectly Hydrocarbons 1 US Energy Information Agency and 2 responsible for emissions e. g. electricity purchased from the Carbon Trust Ukrainian national grid.
Additional sources of CO included 2 Purchased Electricity and Steam European Bank for explosives and lubricants.
Reconstruction and Development Development of the electricity carbon emission factors for Ukraine Baseline The table below shows the Groups CO intensity ratio was 0.232 2 Study for Ukraine, Final Report 14 October 2010 emissions per tonne in 2016 compared to 0.229 emissions per Explosives Australian Department of Climate Change, tonne in 2015.
While actual emissions of CO reduced by 3% 2 National Greenhouse Accounts NGA Factors 2008 during the year, the intensity ratio was impacted by a 4% decline Kyoto Montreal Protocol Blends UK Government & in production.
Royal Society Emissions in tonnes 2016 2015 % change Biofuels ISCC 205 GHG Emissions Calculation Methodology and GHG Audit CO emissions 2,599,838 2,675,215 -3% 2 direct 550,591 625,190 -12% The ongoing project to utilise sunflower husks, a form of biofuel, in the Companys pelletiser meant that biogenic CO emissions rose indirect 2,049,274 2,050,025 -0.04% 2 to 73,352 tonnes in 2016 2015: 7,382 tonnes.
Replacing nonPellets produced kt 11,200 11,662 -4% renewable energy sources with biofuels has several advantages, Intensity ratio 0.232 0.229 1% such as a lower reliance on fossil fuels, a more environmentally friendly energy mix, and lower costs.
Natural gas historically represented approximately 15% of the Companys C1 cost: the Note: 2015 emissions data has been reduced by 53,098 tonnes and the intensity ratio reduced accordingly.
This was due to an incorrect factor applied to the conversion of natural gas from cubic usage of biofuels has helped reduce the Groups natural gas metres into tonnes.
cost to approximately 12% of the C1 cash cost.
Emissions from direct sources, which are predominantly from fossil fuels, fell by 12% during 2016 through a reduction in the use of natural gas and diesel during the year.
This was achieved through the partial substitution of natural gas with sunflower husks in the pelletiser, and reduced stripping volumes at FYM, resulting in an overall reduction in diesel consumption by 5%.
FERREXPO PLC 41 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED ECONOMIC INDICATORS AND BUSINESS ETHICS In 2016 steel related exports represented 17% of total exports from Ukraine.
Ferrexpo was the largest exporter of iron ore products representing 2% of total exports.
UKRAINIAN ECONOMY The Group has been a consistent employer, investor and tax KPIs payer to the Ukrainian economy through commodities cycles GOAL PERFORMANCE and periods of political instability.
Ferrexpo is the largest employer in Horishni Plavni and operates within the local Continue to support Spending on goods and community at a range of levels, not just as the main employer, the economy in services from Horishni Plavni but also by providing support to schools, hospitals, the Horishni Plavni maintained at approximately elderly and the vulnerable.
Since listing on the London Stock 10% of total Exchange in 2007, Ferrexpo has made charitable donations of over US$150 million, paid over US$630 million in taxes and Educate workforce in Training in code of conduct royalties to the government and reinvested more than US$2 code of conduct and and anti-bribery commenced billion of its profit back into its operations, representing over half best practice business in 2016, with over 1,000 of its profits generated during this time.
The Company is also a principals employees taking courses major customer of state run infrastructure: for example in 2016, in initialphase Ferrexpo was the largest customer of the Ukrainian rail network for exported goods.
BUSINESS ETHICS In 2016, Ferrexpo updated its code of conduct which reenforces the high level of expectation the Company has for the behaviour of its employees and contractors in doing business.
Ferrexpo is committed to following the laws and regulations of every country in which it operates.
The code covers issues such as confidentiality, internal policies such as equality and diversity, human rights, fraud and corrupt practices, and conflicts of interest.
TRAINING IN BUSINESS ETHICS Training modules in both the code of conduct and preventing bribery were introduced in 2016.
Since initiation, of the 1,050 individuals invited to undertake training modules in the US$630M Companys code of conduct and preventing bribery, a total of PAID IN TAXES AND ROYALTIES SINCE LISTING 74% had completed courses by 31 December 2016, with this figure continuing to increase as additional departments are invited to participate in 2017.
It is the Companys intention for all employees to complete both training modules.
30% EMPLOYING EQUIVALENT OF 30% OF WORKING AGE PEOPLE IN LOCAL COMMUNITY 42 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 COMMUNITY Ferrexpo believes that strong, well supported local communities are key to successful and sustainable operations.
BUILDING STRONG COMMUNITIES Ukraine is currently rebuilding its economy following recent KPIs troubles and Ferrexpo supports communities throughout GOAL PERFORMANCE Ukraine where it can, in health, education and other related projects.
In 2016, Ferrexpo invested US$28 million or 2.8% of Contribute to the 6,489 employees undertook total Group revenue on such projects 2015: US$26 million.
development, training in 2016, equivalent to Of this amount, approximately 90% related to activities education and skills 71% of workforce at a national, regional and local level through the charity of the local population organisation Blooming Land.
Blooming Land performs the majority of its activities through three charities: Ukraine Provide targeted Continued to support Healthy Country Diabetes A to Z, Healthy Sight To See It assistance to community projects All and Institute of Social Programmes Happy Old Age.
community projects FERREXPOS COMMUNITY PROJECTS In addition to the funds allocated to Blooming Land, Ferrexpo finances local community projects within 25 kilometres of the operations through FPMs charity fund.
These projects are identified and prioritised by dedicated committees which are best placed to understand the needs of the local communities adjacent to each business unit.
Where possible, existing successful projects were sustained to provide continuity and a consistent approach.
Project expenditure relating to these activities in 2016 was allocated as follows: medical care 59%, infrastructure 22%, financial support to the vulnerable 15%, education 1% and sport 3%.
HELPING HANDS PROJECT Together with German charity organisations, during 2016 Ferrexpo arranged for delivery of aid and supplies to hospitals and kindergartens in the area local to Ferrexpos operations.
This partnership comprised two deliveries of medical equipment, 2.8% furniture, wheelchairs and childrens toys, which were kindly OF GROUP REVENUE INVESTED provided by German charities and were delivered to Ukraine IN COMMUNITY PROJECTS IN 2016 with logistical assistance from Ferrexpo.
Specific examples of aid provided include a ventilation machine for the emergency room in Horishni Plavnis municipal hospital, as well as 15 boxes of toys for children in the Solnyshko kindergarten in the village of Dmitrovka, located three kilometres to the west of the Companys Yeristovo mine.
86% OF NEW HIRES FROM LOCAL COMMUNITIES IN 2016 FERREXPO PLC 43 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
