Fidessa group plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report continued hidden or visible disabilities.
Fidessa through the intranet site, product Employees, employee involvement and equal joined the Business Disability Forum seminars and interactive Group-wide during the year.
meetings at which progress updates opportunities Fidessa considers its employees not are given by senior management.
Achieving gender diversity in certain only as key stakeholders in the sectors, including the software and It is important for Fidessa to business but also critical to its success technology sector, continues to understand how its employees feel and growth.
It therefore aims to present challenges when considering about working at Fidessa and the maintain an attractive place to work, the profile of the available talent pool Fidessa Focus employee survey where employees can develop in those sectors.
Fidessa has active conducted in 2016 helped provide successful and rewarding careers female involvement at director, senior some valuable feedback.
management and other management survey was conducted in 2014.
The table below sets out the 2016 survey was facilitated by an Fidessa has an extensive induction programme that provides all new gender breakdown across the Group.
independent HR consultancy, Expert Training Systems plc ETS and was joiners with the opportunity to Male Female understand Fidessas business and completed by 82% of all staff 75%: Directors 7 1 2014.
The key highlights were: customers.
It offers an extensive set of training programmes and Other senior managers 16 3 Fidessa scored an overall career development opportunities engagement score of 82%.
The All employees 1,371 365 for employees.
overall engagement score relates Fidessa continues to focus on building to the percentage of combined In order to encourage a diverse pool agree and strongly agree a diverse and inclusive culture of talent and assist in raising Fidessas throughout the Group and its responses selected by participants profile amongst new and diverse against each of the engagement employment policies are designed to talent, Fidessa joined the Tech attract, retain and motivate the very index questions within the survey, Partnership during the year.
One of of which there were seven best employees regardless of colour, the aims of the Tech Partnership is to nationality, sex, marital status, sexual questions.
Of these seven inspire a new generation, especially questions, three scored above the orientation, age, religion, disability or girls, about technology skills and any other characteristic protected by ETS benchmark, three were in line technology careers.
with the ETS benchmark and there law.
In addition to its employment policies, Fidessa managers with global was no benchmark data available Effective communication and for the other.
The results illustrate responsibility receive training openness with employees are vital designed to ensure that they avoid Fidessas strong performance and Fidessas internal communications against external benchmarks: unintended bias.
policy promotes the understanding 83% of employees rated Fidessa and involvement of all employees in its Applications for employment by favourably as an employer: and business aims and performance.
disabled persons are always fully the highest scoring question was Fidessa has a relatively flat considered, bearing in mind the I care about Fidessas customers.
management structure and is aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
committed to and encourages regular Wherever possible the employment of Despite the excellent results of the face-to-face communications.
The employees who become disabled will survey, Fidessa set up various focus policy of providing employees with be continued and appropriate training groups with the aim of further information about new products and and career development will be improving the results ahead of the services, operations and the offered.
Fidessa is committed to being next survey, which is scheduled performance and development of the able to fully support employees with for 2018. overall business has continued
