Fidessa group plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Based on external benchmarking The health and safety of employees, that it operates and it supports the within the key regions, Fidessa offers customers and visitors is of primary principles set out in the following remuneration and benefits packages importance.
Fidessa is committed to international standards: consistent with similarly placed maintaining a safe and healthy UN Declaration of Human Rights: technology employers in the countries working environment by managing its UN Guiding Principles on Business Fidessa operates.
In addition, Fidessa activities so as to avoid unnecessary and Human Rights: and encourages employees to own shares or unacceptable risks.
Health and Core Conventions of the in the Company through their safety audits and risk assessments are International Labour Organization.
participation in the Share Incentive carried out regularly.
Appropriate Plan SIP and the Monthly Share information, training and supervision Additionally, Fidessa believes that its Purchase Share MSPP.
As at 31st are provided in support of this policy.
policies relating to equality, equal December 2016 91% of employees Corporate social responsibility opportunities and anti-corruption also were eligible to participate in the and human rights help avoid causing or contributing to SIP and or MSPP.
Further details Fidessa recognises the importance negative human rights impacts.
of the SIP and MSPP can be found of meeting globally recognised Fidessas website provides further in note 19 to the consolidated corporate responsibility standards.
details on Fidessas corporate social The Board believes that Fidessa has a responsibility and human rights Fidessa also offers flexible working positive social impact through the policies, including Fidessas statement arrangements, supporting part time employment it creates, the payment in relation to Section 54 of the Modern working and reduced hours to allow of local corporate, employment and Slavery Act 2015. its employees to balance their work sales taxes, its participation in and family commitments.
Environmental matters activities with local communities and It is important to Fidessas employees, The success Fidessa has in recruiting its regular support of a number of customers and suppliers that it acts in and retaining staff can be further fundraising activities for employee an environmentally responsible demonstrated by the fact over 50% of nominated charities.
Employees are manner and that Fidessa has all employees have been with Fidessa encouraged to follow good principles endeavoured to manage the effect for more than five years and nearly of social behaviour, which are that it has on the environment and to 20% for more than 10 years.
reflected in Fidessas internally support sustainability.
Fidessas published corporate social Fidessa has policies, procedures environmental policy is regularly responsibility policy.
Fidessa believes and or training designed to ensure reviewed and is published on its that engagement with local that it operates in a legal and ethical website and intranet.
communities helps support the manner.
These include policies, principles set out in its social and As an office-based software and procedures and or training relating services provider, Fidessa has no ethics policy.
to health and safety, whistleblowing, activities that have a major negative anti-corruption, grievance, maternity, During the year Fidessa contributed environmental impact.
Usage of paternity, adoption and parental globally 30,000 to charities though energy to facilitate the computing leave, flexible working, learning and direct donation or matched funding.
requirements of its data centres and career development, cyber and Fidessa is committed to respecting its employees, as well as international physical security and IT.
Fidessa the human rights of individuals in the travel, are considered to be the reviews its policies on a regular basis UK and internationally.
Fidessa greatest environmental impacts to ensure that they continue to be fit recognises that it has an opportunity associated with its daily operations.
to ensure that human rights are understood and observed in the areas
