Our people During the year, like many transport organisations across the UK and Our 110,000 people are at the heart of our success.
North America, we have experienced driver shortages.
To meet these Throughout 2015 16 we have continued to make challenges in the UK, we have adapted our attraction strategies, using progress in our approach to recruitment and talent avariety of electronic job boards, radio campaigns, and open days.
development, employee engagement, wellbeing and Ourapproach in North America has also included trials of geo-targeting diversity across the Group.
technology to alert mobile phone users to job opportunities in their area.
Driver retention is also a key area of focus, and we are planning a range People development of projects during 2016 17 to improve our performance.
During the year, we have continued to invest in our leaders at all levels to strengthen our management capability and support the effective Employee engagement delivery of our transformation and divisional business plans.
Having an engaged workforce, motivated to give great service to our customers, is critical to our success.
Our Your Voice employee survey, Senior managers and leaders within each division have completed carried out annually in the UK and every 18 months in North America, a360 degree assessment process, with comprehensive feedback measures employees satisfaction with the way they are managed, the anddevelopment support.
Senior managers have also received pride they feel in working for the business and how likely they are to tailoredleadership and individual development programmes, and recommend us to others as a great place to work.
morethan 50senior HR professionals across the Group have been trained to implement an enhanced talent management and succession The engagement scores across our UK divisions show an improving planning process.
trend since our first employee survey in 2010, with a 9% increase in comparable results.
However in 2015 16 our overall UK engagement For middle and first level managers, we have continued the delivery levels dropped by four percentage points on the previous year.
Such ofour Dynamic Performance and Development programme, and aresult is not unusual in organisations going through major change, added new virtual sessions and online content.
By August 2016, this butour divisions are responding to this feedback from our people.
programme will have trained more than 14,000 employees with the skills to lead and manage their teams more effectively.
First Bus, Great Western Railway GWR and TransPennine Express TPE all have action plans to improve recognition of, and Additionally, we have begun delivery of our Be Safe programme for all communications to, front line employees and better visibility of managers and supervisors across the organisation.
This major training careerdevelopment opportunities.
In First Bus and TPE we piloted investment is focused on building the right behaviours and habits to smartphone apps to improve communication with our employees, ensure that we sustain and improve our safety performance across andwe are further exploring the creation of an ideas sharing facility theGroup.
Initial indications from the locations first to implement the inthe First Bus version.
programme are encouraging and give confidence of continuous improvement towards zero harm and of making safety a personal Our 66% UK engagement score for 2015 16 is consistent with the corevalue.
Further information on Be Safe and our safety performance national average for UK businesses across many sectors, and one can be found on page 24. percentage point above the average for the UK transport sector.
Graduate talent Our North American divisions delivered their engagement action plans Our successful two year UK graduate programme is helping us during 2015 16, and will run further Your Voice surveys in2016.
strengthen our pipeline of future leaders.
We are delighted to have As part of our drive to improve employee engagement, leaders from beenexternally recognised by The Job Crowd in their ranking as across our divisions meet regularly to share best practice and new TopCompany for Graduates to Work for in Transport, Logistics and ideas, and generate practical tools to help front line managers.
We also moved up 15 places in the Guardians list of top 300 graduate recruiters.
Health and wellbeing Having a healthy, motivated workforce helps us deliver reliable services We recruited nine graduates in 2015 16 and a further seven will join to customers.
In the UK in 2015 16 we continued to support employees usin September 2016.
This year we have seen a 4% rise in female through our Live Well, Be Well, Work Well health campaigns.
applicants, and an increase in the number of females actually recruited, with women making up more than 50% of the September 2016 cohort.
For example, TPE created an employee wellbeing handbook, and avariety of health campaigns have been spearheaded by a network Apprenticeship schemes ofwellbeing champions.
These champions are spread across TPE Over the past three years we have recruited more than 150 apprentices locations and work to promote employee health for example by into our business on to schemes of between 18 months and four years encouraging colleagues to cycle to work, and increase levels of exercise.
We are particularly proud that more than 80% of our bus apprentices, and 100% of our rail apprentices have secured permanent In North America we continued our successful Route to Better Health roles with us on completion of their training.
In the year ahead we will be programme, with wellbeing information being shared on nominated recruiting a further 50 apprentices.
notice boards in each location.
Resourcing In 2016 17 we will be encouraging employees across the UK and North Our 110,000 employees are the public face of FirstGroup to millions of America to improve their physical and mental wellbeing through internal customers every day.
Being able to hire and retain high calibre people campaigns on exercise, smoking cessation and healthy eating.
com 2016 CR Data which was included within KPMG LLPs independent limited assurance scope.
com 2016 KPMG assurance for full opinion.
Diversity and inclusion We aspire to be a diverse and inclusive organisation because we believe that diversity brings benefits for our customers, communities and our people.
Valuing our differences and drawing on all of our collective knowledge and experience helps us make FirstGroup abetter business.
Our full gender diversity snapshot for 2015 16 is shown above.
Trendsin our gender statistics between 2013 and 2016 show that weare making gradual progress in changing the gender demographics of ourbusiness.
The percentage of women across the Group has increased by 2.9percentage points from 37.6% in 2013 to 40.5% in 2016.
The number of women in our North American divisions has increased by 0.4 percentage points since 2013, to 49.5%.
In the UK, from 2013 to 2016, First Bus has seen an increase of 0.3 percentage points and FirstRail has seen the proportion of women increase by 2.2 percentage points across the division over the same period.
Within our senior leadership team, there are currently 44 women, representing 18% of our total senior management roles.
Notably in 2015, Fiona Kerr, Managing Director Scotland, First Bus, was named Woman of the Year by her peers at the prestigious FTA everywoman in Be First Awards Transport & Logistics Awards.
Fiona has led a team who have delivered The inaugural Be First Awards, held in January 2016, were significant improvements in customer service.
agreat celebration of our people who have made significant The Board continues to aim towards its aspiration of 25% of Board contributions to our business over the last year.
positions being filled by women.
The Board remains of the opinion These individuals and teams, nominated by their colleagues, thatappointments should be made on merit and relevant experience, made an exceptional effort to reflect our vision, strategy against the criteria identified by the Nomination Committee, having andvalues in their everyday behaviours and actions, regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender.
Future representing the true strength of the 110,000 people who appointments to the Board must also complement the balance workacross FirstGroup.
ofskillsthat the Board already possesses.
Further details on the Nomination Committee can be found on page 61.
Two events, held in Manchester for our UK businesses and inPhiladelphia for our North America divisions, were attended We are not complacent and are aware we need to do more work to by more than 250 employees, with awards for individuals and attract women into FirstGroup.
Over the coming year, we are planning teamsacross nine different categories including committed anumber of initiatives to attract more women into driver and to our customers, dedicated to safety and keeping management roles to further improve our workforce diversity.
Our diversity and inclusion approach will continue to look more widely In the UK, our supportive of each other award was won by than just gender.
For example, to help us retain the valuable skills and Jazz Terry, a Network Officer at First Bus in West Yorkshire.
experience of our older workers, we are continuing to promote flexible Jazz, who joined as a trainee in 2013, was recognised by her working arrangements across our divisions.
In our Manchester bus colleagues for her attention to detail and positive attitude, operating company, 68 older drivers have been retained this year by personifying the values of FirstGroup.
offering flexibility in our working arrangements.
In North America, our committed to our customers award To support young people looking for their first job in the transport was won by Shonna Hawes pictured, who works in the industry, GWR is working in partnership with The Princes Trust on a Greyhound customer service office in New York our highest Get into railways scheme.
The four week scheme is open to young volume terminal in the US and Canada.
Shonnas colleagues people from the age of 18 who are unemployed or atrisk of emphasised how she always goes above and beyond the unemployment through underachievement in education, or who may duties of her job to support our customers.
have specific learning needs or a disability.
Following the firstprogramme in January 2016, our commitment is to run three Aside from the recognition of their great work, winners were schemes during each year of the current franchise, aiming to support rewarded with a donation to a charity of their choice.
more than 100 young people during this time.
Read more about roles at FirstGroup at firstgroupcareers.
com FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21
