Corporate responsibility 2 In 2008, the Low Carbon Vehicle Partnership devised a definition of Our approach alow carbon emission bus as one producing 30% less well-to-wheel We recognise our responsibility as an international transport company greenhouse gas GHG emissions than a standard Euro III diesel bus.
to provide sustainable travel solutions for our customers and the Thisserved as a performance target for different low-carbon bus communities we serve.
Our focus on managing our impacts on the technologies and fuels, and as the bar for qualification for the UK environment, safety, and investing in our people and communities, Governments fiscal incentives.
Since 2010, First Bus has recorded reflects the areas where we have a material impact and know we can busmileage in each of the Euro engine categories as a measure of make a positive difference.
In each of these areas we aim to exceed ourcontribution to better air quality.
In 2014 15, we reported that 80% regulatory requirements, and work with expert networks and groups to 3 of our annual bus mileage in the UK was completed with engines of learn from best practice, helping us to respond to the current and future Euro III standard or above.
In needs of our stakeholders.
We constantly strive to find new, innovative addition, our bus mileage in the UK from electric, bio-methane and ways to meet changing customer expectations and become the hydrogen vehicles combined has almost quadrupled since last year.
provider of choice for those we serve, optimising our resources and investing in the future potential of our people and our communities.
In recognition of our efforts to reduce our direct carbon emissions andimpacts related to water use, we have continued to integrate We measure our performance through sustainability benchmarks and low-carbon investments into our planned approach to property and indices, actively seeking engagement with rating agencies to identify facilities management.
In 2015 16, we invested in a range of low-carbon opportunities for collaboration.
In 2015 16, we scored the highest solutions, including high efficiency lighting and heating systems within possible marks in the climate change, corporate governance, human our bus depots and stations, intelligent energy controls and workforce rights and community sections of the FTSE4Good Index, once again engagement to support our carbon reduction plans.
placing us in the top percentile of the travel and leisure supersector.
Wealso demonstrated our commitment to climate change mitigation, Disruption to the Dawlish railway line between Exeter and Plymouth adaptation and transparency through our participation in the Carbon in2014 graphically illustrated the impacts of climate change on our Disclosure Project, where our results remain above industry average.
Many transport facilities were designed for the climate whichexisted at the time when they were built yet are now subject We closely monitor our direct and indirect impact on the environment, toincreasing risk of flood and other extreme weather events.
We have allowing us to identify where we can make efficiency savings and share continued to evaluate the potential risks to our business and routinely best practice across the Group.
By tracking our carbon footprint, we include measures such as business continuity planning and risk can be clear on where opportunities lie, helping us to create robust assessment which take into consideration historical extremes and the targets for the future.
With our previous climate change strategy having results of transport sector research on climate change adaptation to now concluded, we will be reviewing and relaunching a new plan which we have contributed.
Our 2015 16 carbon footprint FirstGroups 110,000 employees are key to the delivery of our corporate The table on page 23 provides a summary of the emissions for which responsibility priorities.
We have continued to deliver training and weare responsible.
Since 2014 15, our absolute carbon emissions communications around topics such as safety, environmental efficiency have decreased by 2.5% to 2,409,462 tonnes CO e. Investment in and community engagement this year across the Group.
We continue 2 low-carbon technologies and consolidation of our estate around more to offer opportunities for active engagement, such as through our modern, efficient facilities, such as First Glasgows Caledonia bus employee-voted partnership with Prostate Cancer UK, where depot, have underpinned this improvement.
Similarly, investment in fundraising and volunteering by our employees in the UK raised ouralternative fuel bus fleet and focus on efficient driving techniques 25,000 through team and individual challenges in this year alone.
inboth our road and rail divisions has led to a scope 1 emissions As established members of Forum for the Future and LBG, we continue reduction of 2.4% against 2014 15 levels.
Scope 3 emissions have to draw upon sector and location-specific insights to help us ensure increased by 15.5% in 2015 16 in comparison with the previous year.
ourcorporate responsibility strategy is relevant to all our stakeholders.
Temporary closure of the TPE rail route following Storm Desmond in Afull review of our strategy, and updates to our policies linked to December 2015 resulted in the need to provide taxi and bus replacement corporate responsibility, in the coming 12 months will help to firmly services for an extended period of time, resulting in this increase.
embed our aspirations to help create strong, vibrant and sustainable local economies where we are theprovider of choice for our customers 1 and the communities we serve.
Following the Paris climate conference COP21, 177countries signed anagreement limiting temperature rise to well below 2 degrees above Environment pre-industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit the increase to 1.5 degrees.
2 As a transport operator, more than 96% of our total carbon emissions The Low Carbon Vehicle Partnership is a public-private partnership established result from the fuel used in our vehicle fleets.
We employ arange of to promote and support the development of lower carbon vehicles.
3 techniques to manage and reduce these, but ourgreatest contribution Based on average bus period mileage across 12 bus periods in 2015 16.
1 4 tolimiting atmospheric warming to 1.5 degrees derives from our ability Emissions and associated revenue related to our First Capital Connect and First ScotRail franchises, which ended on 14 September 2014 and 31 March todrive modal shift from private cars to high-quality, convenient, low 2015 respectively, have been rebased to enable direct comparison.
By providing transport solutions for an increasingly congested world, we are supporting the transition to greener, cleaner futures for the communities we serve across the UK and North America.
22 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report First Bus has invested nearly 400m Our bus mileage in the UK from alternative  buses in the fuels electric, bio-methane and hydrogen lastfiveyears hasalmost quadrupled since last year 4 Our carbon footprint in tonnes of CO e : 2 2015 16 2014 15 2013 14 2012 13 Scope 1 2,298,290 2,354,832 2,317,965 2,357,307 Scope 2 location based 87,886 98,427 94,884 112,027 Scope 3 9,701 8,398 8,641 8,181 Outside of scope 13,585 10,607 11,258 11,444 Total tonnes CO2 e 2,409,462 2,472,264 2,432,748 2,488,959 Total tonnes CO e per 1mrevenue 462 485 467 451 2 Scope 2 marketbased 72,134 98,427 94,884 112,027 Notes to the 2015 16 carbon footprint: Data extracted from www.
com 2016 CR Data which was included within KPMG LLPs independent limited assurance scope.
com 2016 KPMG assurance for full assurance opinion.
Reporting period 1 April to 31 March, in line with the Groups financial year.
Baseline year The Companys baseline is 2010 11.
The same baseline year isalso used in FirstGroups climate change strategy, which contains the Groups carbon reduction strategy and targets for its final year 2015 16.
We will produce anew climate change strategy in 2016 17.
Reporting protocol Our reporting follows the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, applying the operating control approach to our organisational reporting boundary with a materiality threshold set at 5%.
We have reported all material emission sources using the following emission factors: The 2015 UK Government Greenhouse Gas GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting World Resources Institute 2008 GHG Protocol tool for mobile combustion v. 2.6 World Resources Institute 2008 GHG Protocol tool for stationary combustion v. 4.1 Reliable Disclosure System for Europe RE DISS II European Residual Mixes 2014 Recalculation policy Our carbon emissions have been recalculated back to our baseline year to reflect that we no longer operate the First Capital Connect Driving industry innovation orFirst ScotRail franchises in line with our base year recalculation policy.
Revenue onemissions figures have been similarly recalculated to reflect this change for the purposes of reporting our normalised carbon footprint tonnes CO2 e per 1m revenue.
First Bus has held an annual fuel efficiency competition since Scope 1 Direct emissions from vehicle use owned and leased, fugitive 2012 to assess vehicle performance and encourage the refrigerant gas emissions, heating fuels used in buildings, and road fuel use.
Thisyear we have quantified and reported fugitive refrigerant emissions from air development of low-carbon buses to help contribute to conditioning systems within our North American vehicle fleets and from buildings.
cleaner air in the regions in which we operate and to reduce We are continuing to progress plans to report fugitive emissions from First Rail.
our impact on the environment.
Scope 2 Indirect emissions from electricity used in our buildings, and to power our electric rail and bus fleet.
In 2015 16 we have reported both location based The development race between suppliers and manufacturers emission factors taking into account the UK grid average and market based that has resulted from this competition, and the independent, emissions factors which relate to our procurement of electricity supplies from real world testing which takes place at Millbrook Groups renewable or other low-carbon sources.
Where this is the case, we have used facility, has guided First Bus new vehicle procurement anemission factor of zero for renewable electricity covered by Renewable Energy Guarantee of Origin REGO certificates.
For the proportion of UK electricity that strategy and resulted in the Group now operating the UKs has been generated from non-renewable sources, we have used a residual mix largest low-carbon emission bus certified fleet.
When factor which represents the grid average, after the use of tracking systems, such as including the benefit that will be achieved from buses ordered REGOs, has been accounted for.
Since there are no residual mix factors available for 2016 17, First Bus will soon be saving an estimated 15,000 for North America, we have applied the location based emissions factors to calculate the market based scope 2 emissions, for electricity used by FirstGroup in tonnes of CO e per annum compared to Euro III buses as a 2 North America.
For all historical scope 2 market based emissions, we have applied result of our low-carbon certified fleet.
the location based emission factors.
Scope 2 emissions in North America were calculated using CO and not CO e due to limited conversion factors being 2 2 This year, we also expanded our fleet of Euro VI engine buses, available.
adding to our fleet of lightweight MicroHybrid vehicles, which Scope 3 Indirect emissions from First Rail Support and business travel by air.
contain innovative technologies to capture and utilise energy Out of scope Indirect emissions from burning bio-fuels in our First Bus that would otherwise be lost whilst braking.
We continue to vehicles, in line with Defra reporting guidelines.
pursue other emerging low emission technologies, including the operation of 13 electric buses in York, and hydrogen buses in Aberdeen, which only emit water vapour as waste.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23 Corporate responsibility continued Be Safe is a major programme, and we are investing the necessary time, resource and effort into its success.
We held events in the UK and North America for leaders to hear about the Be Safe programme and how with pace, energy and leadership we will deliver this transformation throughout the organisation.
Priority actions have been identified and excellent progress has been made.
Our bespoke behavioural training package for managers and supervisors is already complete in First Student and Greyhound, and First Bus and First Transit will be completed during 2016.
As an example of our strategy in action, a cross-divisional team, supported by Group functions, is working to identify and share best practice in embedding Be Safe behaviours to ensure we deliver the safety outcomes we have targeted.
This includes providing resources and support for our global network of Be Safe coaches, as well as the development and roll out of a supporting online learning package.
During the coming year, the programme will continue to focus on the development of leading performance indicators and enhancements toour supporting systems for safety.
Playing a leading role in Bristol Sadly there have been three employee fatalities in First Student this GreenCapital year, and four passenger fatalities - two of those in a single incident in Greyhound, one in First Bus and one in First Rail.
We feel the impact In 2015, we helped to deliver an unforgettable European ofthese tragic events throughout our organisation and they strengthen Green Capital year, launching one of the icons of the our resolve to achieve zero harm to our employees, passengers and celebration a high tech bio-methane powered vehicle anyone else we come into contact with in the course of our business.
dubbed the poo bus, which creates 80 90% less nitrogen oxide than a standard diesel bus.
Our Executive Safety Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive, andmeets every two months to review the Groups safety strategy, As well as showcasing innovative technology, we gave procedures, performance and practices and to assist the Board Safety support to the local community with GWR sponsoring Committee in obtaining assurance that appropriate operational systems theBristol Community Apprentice Scheme, helping young and processes are in place to manage safety risks and to promote peopleto develop the skills and competencies most valued asafety focused culture.
Our Board Safety Committee reviews the byemployers, and working with First West of England to safety performance of the Group on behalf of the Board, oversees reuse and upcycle lost items collected on our vehicles themanagement of the Groups operational safety risk profile and acrossBristol.
promotes a positive safety culture throughout the Group.
More Our Bristol partnership highlights our focus on sustainable information on our Committees and Groups can be found on page 52. travel solutions and innovative approaches to a greener, Community cleaner future.
By working with the communities we serve we With operations throughout the UK and North America, we are well are supporting local economic growth and social wellbeing.
placed to identify and meet local community needs through both our direct service impact and through partnerships.
Be Safe Community engagement Dedicated to safety, always front of mind safety is our way of life.
We believe that excellence in community engagement is critical to Thisvalue applies to everything we do, and demonstrates our sustaining and improving the long term partnerships we have with our commitment to the health and safety of our passengers, our key stakeholders, including our customers, government and political employeesand all third parties interacting with our businesses.
stakeholders, industry partners, and all those within our local communities.
This year we focused on the development of impactful After seeing improved safety performance over a number of years, our community engagement plans at the local level across the Group, with rate of progress against targets slowed, so this year we introduced our almost 500 plans now being put into practice.
We have continued to new Be Safe programme to build on our strong safety foundations and deliver training and support for managers to enhance their community reinvigorate our safety performance.
Be Safe takes us to the next level engagement skills, and have provided opportunities for sharing best of performance by transforming our safety culture, using the principles practice between our divisions.
Our second annual stakeholder survey of behavioural science to help us achieve three key objectives: will be launched in 2016, allowing us to benchmark and monitor our Continued progress on our way to zero harm success in engaging with our communities in a consistent way across the Group on an annual basis.
Making safety a personal core value through behavioural change Community investment Improving business performance through better safety performance.
Establishing long term partnerships with local and national charitable 24 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Weve donated more than 400,000 toProstate Cancer UK since our partnership began in April 2015 organisations allows us to broaden our positive impact on the communities we serve.
As an organisation comprising thousands ofvehicles and hundreds of bus and train stations, we have a unique opportunity to raise awareness of the work being done by charities and promote education around their particular cause through advertising space.
This is especially relevant in our three year partnership with Prostate Cancer UK, our UK Charity of Choice, selected by our 26,000 UK employees in April 2015.
So far we have donated more than 300,000 in advertising space alone, supporting Prostate Cancer UKs Men United campaign.
As well as support for volunteering, our UK employees also benefit from matched funding for their fundraising efforts, a benefit used by a number of teams and individuals across our UK offices and depots.
In addition, more than 1,000 UK employees take part in payroll giving, donating a total of 92,000 to charity through their pre-tax pay in the last year alone.
We have a number of partnerships in place across the Group with charities and non-profit organisations in the communities in which we operate.
For example, GWR has partnered with Guide Dogs for the Blind to help improve the experience of people with visual impairments Prostate Cancer UK partnership using rail services in the UK.
Across North America, Greyhound reaches first anniversary provides support through the Home Free programme in partnership with National Runaway Safeline, reuniting runaway children with their Thousands of FirstGroups employees voted for Prostate families.
First Student focuses its charitable donations and in kind Cancer UK as the Companys UK Charity of Choice.
The three support on education and youth work, reflecting the market we serve, year partnership, which began in April 2015, aims to raise 1m as well as contributing to scholarship funds for districts in which we to support Prostate Cancer UKs work.
In total, FirstGroup and our employees have donated 1.42m In the first year of our partnership, we donated more than during 2015 16 as measured by the LBG model.
300,000 of advertising space on buses and at railway Human rights stations nationwide to launch Prostate Cancer UKs Men FirstGroup recognises and respects all human rights as defined in the United campaign, raising awareness of a disease which United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We continue currently affects more than a third of a million men in the UK.
tosupport the principles set out in both the International Labour The powerful adverts highlight how one man dies every hour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights from prostate cancer in the UK, and shows what passengers atWork, and the Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, established can do to help put a stop to it.
by the Organisations for Economic Cooperation and Development, as Since starting the partnership, employees have been well as seeking to learn from other best practice examples.
fundraising and supporting awareness-raising events and In accordance with requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, we volunteer-led talks in our depots and offices across the UK, will publish our first annual Transparency Statement in summer 2016, with many more planned for the year ahead.
In addition to the setting out what steps we have taken to ensure that slavery and human donation of advertising space, more than 135,000 has been trafficking are not taking place in our supply chains or any part of our given by FirstGroup and its employees to the charity to business.
This Board-approved statement will be available on our continue their vital work this year.
website, with a link visible from our homepage.
In 2015 16, we introduced a new Code of Conduct on Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Prevention, began a review of our related risk across We are committed to creating and maintaining a safe and healthy the Group as a whole, and started to introduce a new standard working environment for our employees, customers and the contract clause to highlight our commitment to the avoidance of community.
We recognise our employees rights to freedom of modern slavery.
association and have a high degree of unionisation across our businesses both in the UK and North America During 2016 17 our Corporate Responsibility Policy will be refreshed toensure its focus remains pertinent to the current and future needs Our procurement processes and policies, and relationships with and interests of all our stakeholders, including on human rights.
Our oursuppliers, are key to ensuring our awareness of impacts through commitments remain that: our supply chain.
We aim to ensure that goods and services are fromsources that do not jeopardise human rights, safety, or the We will conduct every aspect of our business with honesty, integrity environment, and expect our suppliers to observe business principles and openness, respecting human rights and the interests of our consistent with our own.
employees, customers and third parties, as detailed in our Code ofBusiness Ethics FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25
