FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 77 Social and Sustainability Report The Strategic Imperative The fourth pillar of Fresnillo plcs strategy is sustainable development and the responsible operation of our business.
The Groups business model directly incorporates sustainable business practices in the value-creation pyramid, as our license to operate requires a committed, continuous and integrated focus on our people, communities and environment.
We believe that mining can and should be compatible with expectations of both economic value creation and social and environmental performance.
We also believe that responsible mining enhances our competitive Issue Top 20 non-financial materiality issues advantages: engaging communities from the earliest stages of 1 Cyanide Management exploration and development reduces project risk and supports 2 Mineral waste management tailing, waste rock and heaps asset values: community support and environmental stewardship can minimise disruptions and ensure operating continuity: and 3 Ethics and Integrity a solid ESG risk profile influences the cost of capital, which is 4 Land acquisitions & resettlements essential to balance sheet flexibility.
5 Safety 6 Government payment transparency As outlined herein, our priorities are to eliminate unsafe workplace 7 Transparency & Accountability conditions and behaviours: improve and maintain the health of our people: minimise the environmental impact of our activities: engage 8 Water stewardship with and support the development of our communities: and secure 9 Occupational health the talent pipeline and ensure a fair and ethical workplace.
10 Soil pollution 11 Fair remuneration Materiality Our current KPIs are based on the aforementioned priorities.
12 Non-mineral waste and hazardous materials management However, to ensure alignment with the outcomes of recent 13 Government relations & lobbying materiality assessments amongst our stakeholder groups, 14 Respect the culture and heritage of local communities we are evaluating key performance and progress indicators 15 Employee wellbeing for future reporting.
16 Local employment Non-financial materiality assessments help us better understand 17 Energy the relative importance of non-financial issues to the Company 18 Local procurement Small and Medium Enterprises and its very diverse group of stakeholders, with local, regional 19 Acid Mine Drainage AMD and global reach.
We cannot use a one-size-fits-all approach to conducting these assessments, but rather tailor them to the 20 Union relation profile of the stakeholder considering scope, affiliation and sector for example, local and global investors, NGOs, universities and Other issues regulators, as well as priority assessments at the local level Equal remuneration for women and men, Community Human to capture expectations of communities, local authorities, Rights, Biodiversity, Human Rights in the workplace, Effectiveness informal leaders, employees unionised and non-unionised of the Mexican Mining Fund, Air emissions SO, NO, PM, etc.
The outcomes of our materiality assessment Protection against forced or compulsory labour, Employee will continue to guide our sustainability strategy and streamline recruitment, development and retention, Appropriate disclosure our reporting.
Information on matters that are considered of less of information & consultation in new projects, Diversity and nonsignificance and materiality to our stakeholders is available online discrimination, Compliance with international labour standards, at www.
com Indigenous people rights, Climate change physical, reputational, regulatory financial risks, Mine closure, Corruption and bribery, Global and regional assessment Number of hours in the working day and Work-Family balance.
6 16 12 3 1 13 10 2 4 15 18 8 7 14 9 5 11 19 17 20 Fresnillos issue materiality Note: Material issues in blue, other issues in green.
Society issue significance Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 78 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Local priority assessments Human rights Larger spheres represent greater importance We respect and support human rights, avoid complicity with abuses, address grievances related to our business activities where relevant and we do not tolerate human rights violations committed by our employees, contractors, or public or private security providers acting on our behalf.
Along with the laws of Mexico that protect human rights, we have internal policies and practices to protect the human rights of our communities, employees and contractors, and the Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblowing line to report any concerns.
Environmental, livelihood and other community concerns can be reported through our grievance mechanism, or brought to light via our perception studies.
We are committed to further integrating human rights considerations into our business practices in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights UNGPs.
Our priorities are to: Develop a specific Human Rights Policy that builds on our Code of Conduct and sustainability policy.
Community Formal Informal Unionised Un-unionised Contractors Provide guidance to our operations and projects on identifying authorities authorities employees employees and addressing salient human rights risks.
Water Better integrate human rights considerations into key Security community relations processes such as stakeholder Wastewater engagement and the grievance mechanism.
Road infrastructure Implement human rights due diligence as part of our Social Pavement of streets and walkways Unemployment Impact Assessments SIA or as standalone assessments.
Electricity supply Garbage collection and street cleaning Corruption: Transparency in government payments Public lighting Corruption has been recognised by the United Nations as one Sport and recreational spaces of the obstacles to effective promotion and protection of human rights.
Mexico ranked 123 176 in the 2016 Corruption Perception Governance Index CPI of Transparency International.
The Group implements The Board of Directors, through its Health, Safety, Environment anti-bribery and anti-corruption controls, due diligence and ethical and Community Relations HSECR Committee, evaluates the training for our people and contractors, and government payments effectiveness of the Companys policies, action plans and systems are reported annually on our website.
The Committee meets semi-annually to review performance and monitor managements responses to Integrated Management System key issues.
In 2016, the Board assigned the Committee oversight Our Integrated Management System is based on ISO 14001 responsibility of the initiatives to embed ethics and integrity and OHSAS 18001.
It is the primary tool to drive continuous into the organisational culture.
A letter from the Chair of the improvement and embed safety in our operations, incorporating Committee precedes this report and provides information key safety activities and controls such as risk management, on their work in the year.
root cause analysis of accidents, training, operating procedures, performance analysis, etc.
It also includes software to support our Remuneration for our senior executives takes sustainability assurance reviews and track the progress of action plans resulting performance into consideration, specifically in the areas of from deficiencies detected.
stakeholder relations, teamwork and safety see Remuneration Report on pages 138-153.
The system also ensures effective compliance with environmental regulations and supports initiatives to reduce our environmental Our sustainability strategy is managed through our HSECR footprint, implement the Cyanide Code, Mexican Clean Industry Management System, whose maturity is assessed semi-annually certification and other best practices.
Furthermore, the system by PwC on the basis of its strategy, structure, processes, includes operating procedures to safely manage and monitor people and technology.
In 2016, we reached our target tailings storage facilities and waste rock piles following best of a fully-integrated management system.
practices, and helping our sites comply with applicable regulations in Mexico, as well as policies to reduce and reuse non-mineral and hazardous waste.
Key Human Rights Issues for Businesses Operating in Mexico Occupational Health & Safety Health & Safety sections Forced labour People section Working conditions People section Child labour People section Unions: freedom of association People section Discrimination People section Environment Environment section Land rights Community relations section Corruption: Transparency in government payments Security Source: Country Guide to Human Rights and Business in Mexico published by the Danish Institute for Human Rights.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 79 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals SDGs We have committed to doing our part at Fresnillo plc by In 2015, the United Nations adopted 17 SDGs as part of the 2030 identifying the SDGs most strategically aligned with our impacts, Agenda for Sustainable Development, which align the interests of competencies and priorities, mapping them to our HSECR governments, businesses, NGOs and communities to achieve social framework as set out below.
Based on a 2x2 strategy matrix, inclusion, environmental sustainability and economic development.
we advance these goals as part of our core business processes, or indirectly through collaboration and leverage.
Leverage and collaboration Core Business HSECR PILLAR Most relevant SDGs Enhance Health & Safety SDG 3 Good Health and Wellbeing Our focus: safe and healthy work environment, risk management to prevent accidents and occupational diseases, healthier lifestyles initiatives, community health.
Environment SDG6 Clean Water and Sanitation: SDG7 Energy Access and Sustainability: SDG13 Climate Action: SDG15 Life on Land Our focus: mitigation and elimination of adverse impacts Mitigate on land and water resources, energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives.
Communities SDG1 End Poverty: SDG2 Zero Hunger: SDG10 Reduced Inequalities: SDG16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Our focus: local jobs and procurement opportunities, profit sharing mechanisms, capacity building and investment in education and entrepreneurship, human Awards and recognitions rights, anti-corruption, ethics Along with our inclusion in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders, and transparency initiatives.
other recognitions this year include: Ethics and Values in Industry from the Mexican Confederation of Industrial Our People SDG5 Gender Equality: Chambers CONCAMIN and the Socially Responsible SDG8 Decent Work and Company award from the Mexican Centre for Philanthropy Economic Growth CEMEFI.
Industry and standards certifications granted or under application in 2016 are detailed herein under their Our focus: fair hiring, fair relevant categories.
remuneration and benefits, gender equality.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 80 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 2016 objectives Health Implement the Health & Safety Information System, including contractors.
Strategy and objectives To improve and maintain the health of our people.
Adopt ICMM standard for health KPIs.
Mature our assessment protocol for health-related risks.
Approach Reinforce standardisation of health practices and policies We utilise a pre-emptive approach to identify and manage across our operations.
Preventive care and the promotion of healthier lifestyles can limit certain chronic diseases, enhance overall 2016 performance wellness and fitness for work, reduce the risk of injuries and enhance productivity.
While our focus is set on prevention, Health & Safety staff were and continue to be trained emergency preparedness is a core competence of all our in the use of the new Health & Safety Information System.
We work closely with local authorities and Health KPIs suggested by the ICMM are implemented extend our health initiatives to communities as part of our in the Health Information System.
The Health department is currently working on action plans resulting from health related risk assessments.
Corporate staff are supporting and monitoring the progress of business units on hygiene, ergonomic Occupational and psychosocial issues.
health 2017 objectives Increase environmental monitoring of our workspaces to Emergency proactively identify any future sources of health hazards.
Community preparedness Review our operating procedures considering more information from industrial hygiene, notably exposure levels.
Health and wellbeing Strengthen our ergonomic programme through training of our health and safety staff and reviewing workspaces, equipment and procedures.
Healthier Preventive lifestyles health and wellness Certifications Fresnillo Saucito Cinega Penmont Investment in health US$ OHSAS 18001 Certified Certification Certified Certified on hold pending the upcoming 10.94m release of ISO 45000 12.68 Sets out criteria for international best practice in occupational 11.26 10.94 10.34 health and safety management.
Healthy Certified Certified Certified Certified Company Certification by Mexican health authorities for the 2013 2014 2015 2016 implementation of best practice in occupational health and preventive care, including the promotion of healthier lifestyles.
Smoke-Free Certified Certified Certified Certified Company A prerequisite for the Healthy Company certification.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 81 Occupational health We seek to prevent, detect and treat work-related illnesses amongst our employees and contractors.
We have a health baseline for every employee entering the workforce, and conduct regular check-ups to help improve their health and screen for occupational diseases.
Results from each health visit are securely recorded online to track and analyse the health of employees and contractors over time, and to help inform our approach to occupational health going forward.
We utilise Alert-On randomly or methodically, based on the job profile, to detect alcohol and drug usage, as well as to evaluate the fitness of workers in critical activities such as high elevation work or in mine shaft elevators, testing vital signs, vision and glucose levels among others.
We also monitor blood lead levels for those working in areas with risk of exposure.
We are pleased to announce that no new cases of occupational diseases were diagnosed by health authorities during the year.
Preventive health, wellness and healthier lifestyles We seek to prevent health-related issues brought on by aging and lifestyle choices, such as lack of exercise, smoking and poor nutrition.
Weight management, a widespread issue in Mexico, remains our top priority as obesity may trigger chronic diseases such as diabetes and high blood pressure.
Our Healthy Lifestyles programme supports good dietary habits and the prevention and control of obesity-related diseases.
Additionally, we offer employees the following: Influenza vaccinations.
Vision tests and prescription safety glasses if required.
Free annual health check-ups for employees over 50.
Breast and cervical cancer screening for women.
Access to dental and optometry care, in partnership with the National Autonomous University of Mexico UNAM Foundation.
We launched a campaign to raise awareness of certain diseases in 2016.
New cases of Disease rate expressed occupational diseases per 1,000 persons at work 0 0 0.321 0.234 3 2 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 New cases of occupational diseases: Diseases rate: Occupational disease An illness caused or aggravated by work rates are expressed per 1,000 persons activities or workplace conditions.
The number of personnel at work is calculated based on the hours worked.
Total personnel hours worked per year 2000.
Recreational park at Fresnillo Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 82 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 2016 objectives Safety Implement Health & Safety Information System, including for contractors.
Complete OHSAS 18001 certification process at Saucito.
Mature the Operational Discipline and safety assessments initiatives.
2016 performance Implemented a new information system to track accidents, support root cause analysis and other key controls.
Certification on hold pending the upcoming release of ISO 45000.
Operational discipline has reached the last stage of its maturity plan.
This initiative will be supported by the Information System and it will also be part of the Safety Folder initiative.
2017 objectives Implement our Safety Folder initiative to improve compliance and behaviour monitoring across our operations and hierarchy level.
Assign Senior Operation Managers to collaborate with our business units in the follow-up of the implementation of correction measures resulting from root cause analysis of fatal and severe accidents.
Form a group of Safety trainees based on our engineers in training programme to secure the talent pipeline.
Strategic priority To eliminate unsafe workplace conditions and behaviours.
Approach Workplace hazards and risks in our industry include potential rock falls, excessive noise, dust, dangerous chemicals, confined spaces, high temperatures and errors of judgment with implication on safety.
Yet we believe that health and safety in the workplace is a human right: moreover, a safe workplace is vital to productivity and morale, and our safety reputation is a key driver of acceptability in our communities.
Our approach is to instil a safety culture where our workers and contractors have the knowledge, competence and desire to work safely.
We regret to report three fatal injuries in 2016 and one in early 2017.
We are committed to implementing the measures necessary to reverse the negative trend in our safety record.
36m 5.95 4.36 4.26 3.56 Pump station at Saucito 2013 2014 2015 2016 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 83 Critical and fatal injuries Behavioural change For each incident resulting in a critical injury or loss of life, we Human factors are responsible for many incidents and accidents: conduct a root cause analysis to understand the underlying factors rushing, frustration, fatigue and complacency lead to unintentional and determine any remedial actions required.
With management errors that increase the risk of injuries on or off the job.
We engage oversight, lessons learnt and outcomes from each accident are our workforce via two programmes: communicated across our business units to prevent repeats, and any critical controls are implemented in a timely manner.
STOP Stop, Think, Observe and Plan, which teaches that We are standardising our approach to accident investigation all accidents can be prevented, promotes risk monitoring for through our information system and training sessions.
all processes and emphasises the responsibility of the chain of command to detect and immediately remediate unsafe Risk assessments conditions.
We proactively assess and prioritise risks in order to determine Behavioural Change workshops, facilitated by psychologists operating procedures, equipment, training and controls.
Our who provide guidance and counsel on personal issues that situational assessments and legal compliance audits help us may lead to distractions and accidents.
identify operational non-conformities and to develop specific action plans with clear deadlines and accountabilities.
In 2016, Other safety programmes and initiatives we updated our risk analysis for fire events in underground mines.
Operational Discipline, which is structured in phases: making sure safety procedures are available, assuring their quality, Engaging our stakeholders: No More Accidents training and communication, evaluation of compliance and Leadership and engagement continuous improvement: our units are currently focusing We expect our managers, union representatives and contractors on evaluating compliance with procedures.
to take a leadership role in our safety culture.
Senior staff meet Rules that Save Lives, part of our effort to embed critical regularly to strengthen accountability and ensure sufficient rules into our safety culture, with regular reviews, updates funding for preventive measures.
Our situational assessments and reminders in training sessions and group meetings.
evaluate, among other measures, the leadership capabilities Safety Folder, an initiative to reinforce controls, follow-up of our senior staff.
and commitment of supervisors and managers at every level of the Company.
Our entire workforce is represented by formal Health & Safety H&S Commissions at each business unit, who provide leadership Safety culture in the field by auditing and removing unsafe conditions.
H&S Our safety culture is routinely monitored to assess the attitudes, Commissions also investigate the causes of accidents and behaviours and disciplined elimination of unsafe conditions.
occupational diseases, determine preventive measures, and monitor compliance.
Management, unionised employees and Safe cyanide management contractors are represented in these commissions.
Cyanide, widely used in our industry to dissolve gold from its ore in a process called cyanide leaching, can in high concentrations We support our contractors in enrolling in the Mexican Labour be toxic to humans and many living organisms.
Responsible Ministrys voluntary Self-Managed Safety Programme, whose main management of cyanide is critical to ensure the safety of objective is to encourage a self-evaluation culture and continuous our people, contractors, neighbouring communities and improvement.
Contractors self-evaluate compliance with national the environment.
regulations and develop action plans to correct deviations, while we audit their action plans.
Companies participating in the We apply strict health and safety measures to prevent any spills programme can significantly reduce the number of mandated and exposure of our workforce to cyanide, and train our response safety inspections and certain tax requirements.
teams should any incident occur.
The Herradura and Noche Buena mines are certified in the Cyanide Code, which sets out best practices for transporting, storing, using and disposing of cyanide, as developed by the International Cyanide Management Institute ICMI.
See also Cyanide management: environmental aspects on page 90.
Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR For every 1,000,000 hours For every 1,000,000 hours Key Key 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fresnillo Saucito Cinega Noche Buena Herradura Soledad Fresnillo Saucito Cinega Noche Buena Herradura Soledad Dipolos Dipolos 30.3 26.4 57.8 22.3 13.7 14.2 25.4 19.4 41.8 49.4 45.4 27.2 6.4 12.7 7.2 6.5 5.0 13.4 10.4 9.6 6.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.0 3.4 20.1 9.9 2.4 3.0 4.9 5.1 3.1 4.8 9.1 8.7 1.1 3.5 3.8 2.3 0.8 4.7 3.1 3.9 5.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 84 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Safety continued Performance indicators Fatalities Fatal Injury Frequency Rate FIFR Accident rate For every 1,000,000 hours 3 0.
Number of fatal injuries to employees or contractors per The number of accidents divided by the total number of 1,000,000 hours worked.
Total Recordable Injury Frequency Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR Lost workday rate Rate TRIFR For every 1,000,000 hours For every 1,000,000 hours 16.93 5.
76 26.84 7.51 21.12 5.99 16.93 16.24 0.81 3.70 0.76 0.58 0.62 2.18 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 The number of fatalities lost-time cases restricted The number of lost-time injuries fatalities per 1,000,000 The number of days lost to accidents divided by the total work cases medical treatment first aid cases per hours worked.
number of employees and contractors.
Severity rate Duration rate For every 1,000,000 hours 3 11.71 52.
Lost work days divided by the total number of lost-time injuries fatalities.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 85 2016 objectives Environment Set carbon emissions and water targets.
Obtain Clean Industry and ISO 14001 certification at Saucito.
Strategic priority Implement an information system.
To minimise the environmental impact of our activities.
Strengthen the mechanism for internal audits of Approach environmental compliance.
Mining and processing precious metals, whilst essential industries, consume water, disturb land and produce 2016 performance waste and greenhouse gases in the ordinary course We engaged some NGOs and researched target setting of business.
Hence, optimising our use of resources, approaches consistent with the United Nations Sustainable curbing the impact of our activities, and being Development Goals SDG.
transparent and accountable regarding our Saucito has accomplished 90% of the requirements to environmental footprint are crucial to making mining get the ISO 14001 and Clean Industry certifications.
sustainable and retaining our social licence to operate.
We recognise that a clean and sustainable environment The Environment Information System is ready to be is integral to the full enjoyment of human rights.
Environmental plans were evaluated considering the Reporting boundary feedback of the internal assessments.
The reporting boundary for environmental certifications and most KPIs includes the following business units: 2017 objectives Cinega, Fresnillo, Saucito and Penmont Herradura and Noche Buena.
We expect the San Julin mine will Collaborate with operations to forecast energy and water be incorporated into audited measurements in 2017. demand in order to set carbon emissions and water targets.
Prepare our business units for the Environmental Excellence certification of the Mexican authorities.
Penmont San Noche Certification Fresnillo Saucito Cinega Julin Herradura Buena ISO 14001 Certified In Certified Starts Certified Certified process in 2017 90% Framework and criteria for an effective environmental management system.
Clean Certified In Certified Starts Certified Certified Industry process in 2017 90% Certificate granted by the Mexican Environmental Authority to promote environmental audits, compliance with regulations and adoption of best practices.
International N A N A On hold Started Certified Certified Cyanide in 2016 Management Code Sets criteria for the global gold mining industry on cyanide management practices.
The process will resume once the mines capacity optimisation plan is determined.
Environmental Impact Assessments EIAs Before developing any mining project, we conduct EIAs, which identify potential impacts and actions to manage them.
EIAs may address the following for potential impact: surface and groundwater resources, water quality, air quality, soils, biodiversity including threatened or endangered species landscape and socio-economic conditions.
The EIA report, known as environmental impact statement EIS, is presented to the environmental authorities for their evaluation.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 86 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Environment continued Water Water quantity Mining and processing ore require large volumes of water, and We obtain water rights from authorities before using any water in we operate in some arid regions where water is frequently a mining and mineral processing.
We respect our water quotas and relevant issue for communities.
Hence, securing access and being cooperate with water authorities and other stakeholders, including responsible water stewards are critical success factors.
Our water communities, to increase water access.
We rely primarily on management approach is based on operational excellence and groundwater mine water and wells and municipal wastewater cooperation with stakeholders, notably communities, authorities to supply our operations.
We recognise water as a human right and cooperate with communities to increase water access.
Our Fresnillo and Saucito operations build resilience using municipal wastewater.
Cinega, located in the mountains upstream, Risk assessment relies on mine water the ore is below the groundwater table.
Our EIAs allow us to understand water resources and their Penmont, located in an arid and low water use region, is supplied vulnerability on a local and regional scale before developing our by wells.
The proximity of Penmont to the sea offers an opportunity projects.
Responding to the expectations of our stakeholders, to explore the use of seawater.
we conduct our evaluation of water risk using the Aqueduct tool from the World Resources Institute WRI.
Water quality and conservation Mining and mineral processing is less sensitive to the quality of Water risk assessment under current conditions incoming water, allowing for the reuse of wastewater or brackish Overall water Physical risk Physical risk Regulatory & water, and thereby reducing our water footprint.
Additionally our risk quality quality reputational risk mineral processing facilities use closed water circuits, eliminating the Fresnillo Medium No data High risk Low to need to discharge processed water into water streams.
In regards to high medium to the majority of our underground mines, fide-watering is required risk risk draining groundwater by pumping, to allow access to the ore. Unused water is sent to settlement ponds to control suspended Saucito Medium No data High risk Low to solids before discharging the now cleaned water downstream.
to high medium risk risk The quality of discharged water is important to downstream users Penmont Medium Low to High risk Low to and ecosystems and as a result we monitor and take action to to high medium medium ensure our discharges respect water quality regulations.
We have risk risk risk not detected negative downstream impacts on ecosystems or Cinega Medium Low to Medium Low to waterbodies due to our groundwater intake or water discharges.
to high medium to high medium risk risk risk risk Public policy We engage public policymakers and other stakeholders through San Julin Medium Medium Medium Low to the Mexican Chapter of the World Business Council for Sustainable to high to high to high medium Development CESPEDES and the Mexican Mining Chamber risk risk risk risk CAMIMEX, whose positions and initiatives can be consulted on their websites.
Mexico recently reactivated the process to enact Physical risk quality considers return flow ratio and upstream protected land: physical risk a new Water Law.
Our view is that water policy should foster quantity considers baseline water stress, inter-annual variability, seasonal variability, flood occurrence, drought severity, upstream storage and groundwater stress: regulatory and efficiency and sustainably of the resource.
Key considerations reputational risk considers media coverage, access to water and threatened amphibians.
should be: governance, conservation, incentives for efficiency and reuse, long-term planning and certainty of permits, and flexibility Water stress considering climate change scenarios 2020 and 2030 for water transfers among users and basins.
Business as usual Business as usual 2020 2030 Pessimistic 2020 Pessimistic 2030 Communities Fresnillo Near normal 1.4x increase Near normal 1.4x increase Communities benefit from the availability of water from Saucito Near normal 1.4x increase Near normal 1.4x increase our dewatering operations.
We believe that cooperation Penmont 1.4x increase 1.4x increase 1.4x increase 1.4x increase with communities helps limit conflicts arising from access issues.
We also work with municipalities to invest in water and Cinega Near normal 1.4x increase Near normal 1.4x increase wastewater infrastructure, notably with their mining tax funds San Near normal Near normal Near normal 1.4x increase see Community Relations pages 95-99.
We are committed Julin to building trust with the communities, and have launched an initiative for joint water monitoring.
Water stress measures the ratio of total annual water withdrawal to average annual available blue water.
This is a commonly used indicator also known as relative water demand.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 87 Statement of water inputs and outputs in megalitres Intensity Reporting boundary excludes San Julin for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 Reporting boundary excludes San Julin 3 Category Element Sub-element 2016 2015 Intensity measurement: m tonne 2016 2015 3 Input Surface water Rivers and creeks 0 0 Water input in m per tonne of 0.22 0.25 mineral processed Groundwater Mine Water 3,512 4,949 3 Fresh water Input in m per 0.18 0.22 Bore fields 5,218 5,163 tonne of mineral processed Ore Entrainment 302 312 Third party Wastewater 1,765 1,200 Total water inputs 10,797 11,624 Water input Megalitres Output Surface water Discharges 90 130 Other Water entrained 26 24 Key in concentrates 2015 2016 Total water outputs 116 154 6,255 5,971 3 1 megalitre 1,000m 2,797 2,638 2,350 Water deviations in megalitres for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 1,006 664 739 Reporting boundary excludes San Julin Category Element Sub-element 2016 2015 Cinega Fresnillo Penmont Saucito Input Surface water Rivers and 0 0 creeks Groundwater Aquifer 14,359 14,129 Sources of water Interception Dewatering Key Total water inputs 14,359 14,129 Water waste Ore entrainment Output Surface water Discharges 12,428 13,055 Bore fields Supply to third 802 206 Mine water party Donation 10% 16% Loss 1,129 868 3% 3% evaporation, 48% 44% infiltration, etc.
Total water outputs 14,359 14,129 43% 33% 3 1 megalitre 1,000m 2015 2016 Statement of operational efficiency Note: We calculate our water inventory using the Water Accounting Framework for for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 the Minerals Industry, which has been useful to standardise concepts internally and Reporting boundary excludes San Julin benchmark amongst our operations and with other mining companies.
The quantities of Unit 2016 2015 water withdrawn are typically measured by flow metres, but at points of withdrawal that may not be equipped with a flow metre, quantities are estimated.
Reporting boundary Total volume to tasks megalitre 57,994 57,197 excludes San Julin.
Total volume of reused water megalitre 46,931 46,537 Reuse efficiency % 80.9% 81.4% Total volume of recycled water megalitre 1,891 1,210 3 1 megalitre 1,000m Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 88 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Environment continued Climate change & energy Fresnillo plc supports effective, efficient and equitable policies Mining is an energy intensive business.
Energy is used at every and prices of carbon.
We consider that a policy is effective when stage of the value chain, representing a significant portion of our it meets its reduction targets, efficient when it is cost effective overall costs.
Fossil fuels are used in extraction and hauling of ore and equitable when all jurisdictions are contributing to solutions.
and waste rock removal, while electricity is used in our processing We believe that carbon policies must be implemented in a manner plants.
As ore grade decreases and mining goes deeper, we that is reasonably consistent between jurisdictions so that the risk expect an increase in our energy demand.
Given the relation of creating a competitive disadvantage for some emitters does not between energy and greenhouse gas emissions, we also strive to induce carbon leakage.
decarbonise our process to mitigate the risks of climate change.
Our strategy is based on energy efficiency and progressive With regard to the introduction of a supplemental carbon tax in integration of renewables in our energy portfolio.
the state of Zacatecas, we have engaged with state authorities on the economic distortions that could be created by adding the Governance states carbon prices on top of the national rate.
The Boards HSECR Committee reviews our performance, risks and opportunities at their biannual meetings with management, who Transparency and disclosure are responsible for integrating climate change into the business We account for and monitor our greenhouse gas GHG emissions and operating strategy.
based on an inventory management plan IMP, a best practice proposed by the Climate Leaders programme of the US Operational and energy efficiency Environmental Protection Agency EPA.
We are developing a Operational excellence and, more specifically, energy efficiency, third party evaluation of the effectiveness of our diesel additives are key to tackling the challenge of deeper mining and lower ore in our open pit mines.
We participate in the climate change qualities.
Our operating mines set energy efficiency targets each programme of the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP and the year: the open pit operations seek to optimise the truck fleet, use Mexican GHG disclosure programme, GEI Mexico.
of diesel additives and waste dumps to reduce haulage distances, while in the underground operations, our initiatives are related Carbon performance to the optimisation of ventilation and measures to reduce ore Global GHG emissions dilution.
In 2016, our mineral processing plants began to optimise for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 consumption by reducing electricity usage at peak grid hours.
GHG emissions tonnes of CO e Energy MWhe 2 We closely monitor technological developments in energy Reporting Comparison Reporting Comparison efficiency for the mines of tomorrow.
year year year year 2016 2012 2016 2012 Carbon cost exposure and carbon regulation readiness Scope 1 direct 452,497 375,121 1,673,146 1,385,448 Mexico has carbon taxes embedded in the price of fossil fuels, emissions : based on a carbon price of US$3.7 per tonne of CO, with natural 2 Combustion of fuel gas taxed at zero as it is considered the cleanest of fossil fuels.
mobile and The carbon tax is paid by fuel producers and importers as other stationary sources excise taxes and is generally passed on to consumers.
In 2017, Scope 2 indirect 458,848 329,245 705,963 420,615 Mexico begins a transition from administered prices to market emissions : prices: prices will float following market conditions, with volatility Electricity contained to a target zone with adaptable excise taxes subsidies.
purchased from Complete price liberalisation of fuels is expected in 2018.
Recently, the Mexican the government of the Mexican state of Zacatecas, where our National Grid Fresnillo and Saucito operations are located, introduced an CFE, WindForce additional carbon tax of US$12.5 MX$250 per tonne of CO, 2 Peoles FEISA becoming effective in 2017. and Thermoelectric Peoles TEP.
Mexico launched a year-long simulation of a cap-and-trade system Intensity 0.019 0.013 0.049 0.034 as part of a plan of Mexican authorities to introduce a national measurement: carbon market in 2018, which authorities intend to link with Emissions and California and Qubec.
Mexico operates a mandatory emissions energy reported registry: our experience with voluntary reporting has proven above per tonne of valuable to compliance with this regulation.
We do not expect climate change regulations to reduce demand for gold, although there may be an increase in demand for lead, Methodology: We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. zinc and silver for applications in renewables.
These sources fall within our operational control.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not included in our Consolidated Statement.
We have used the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Public policy and preparedness for the physical impacts Reporting Standard Revised Edition.
As with water stewardship, we engage public policymakers and Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions.
other stakeholders through the Mexican Chapter of the World Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity.
Business Council for Sustainable Development CESPEDES, Reporting boundary excludes San Julin.
whose positions and initiatives can be consulted on their website.
The most significant climate change impacts for our Company relate to water.
See pages 86-87 for a more detailed discussion of our water usage and conservation efforts.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 89 Investment in environment Energy GHG profile Waste management US$ Our operations produce mineral waste and, in much smaller proportion, non-mineral hazardous waste.
The global trend of Key lower ore grades will increase mineral waste over time, especially Electricity from FEISA wind in open pit mining.
We recognise that responsible management of Electricity from TEP 3.
20m waste is essential to protect the health and safety of communities, Electricity from National Grid the quality of the environment and our reputation.
We are Combustion of Fossil Fuels committed to safe management of wastes, paying great attention contractors Combustion of Fossil Fuels to the structural and chemical stability of our mineral waste 3.20 1% 0% storage facilities.
29% 11% 17% Mining waste 2.09 1.90 23% 20% Mining operations remove waste rock to access the ore. 16% This primarily incorporates either the overburden rock or soil 48% 1.26 35% overlaying a mineral deposit of open pit operations, or gangue the rock or mineral occurring with the metallic ore but of no commercial value excavated in underground works to access 2013 2014 2015 2016 Energy GHG the ore.
Most mining waste is transported and deposited in waste piles for permanent storage, though some waste rock is used in underground cut and fill operations.
The majority of the Companys Energy use Energy intensity mineral waste is generated by the open pit operations at Penmont GWhe MWhe per tonne and deposited in waste rock piles.
Reclamation usually consists of of mineral processed re-contouring and restoring native plants and vegetation to ensure Key long-term stability.
050 In our processing facilities we reduce the ore to the size of sand and silt to form a slurry, which goes through a cyanide leaching process to extract the desired metals, or a flotation process to 706 673 577 0.050 0.050 0.050 concentrate the ore for its transportation to a metallurgic complex.
0.048 433 1,756 Tailings, the fine ore gains that remain in the slurry at the end of 1,648 1,586 1,410 the process, are generally considered a processing waste since their metal content makes further processing uneconomical: however, they may also be used as input for tailing processing plants for further recovery of metals, as is the case in our Pyrites 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 plant under development see page 70.
Tailings are pumped from the plants to sedimentation ponds, known as tailing dams, for safe storage.
The decanted water, GHG emissions GHG intensity released by the sedimentation of tailings, is harvested and pumped Kt of CO e Tonnes of CO e per tonne 2 2 of mineral processed back to the processing plants.
We have no mining operations with riverine tailings disposal discharge tailings in nearby rivers.
Key Scope 1 Scope 2 Tailings Storage Facilities TSFs 0.
020 Tailings management is a key concern for the mining industry.
While very rare, recent tailings incidents in the industry have served as a reminder of how critical these structures are.
We are 458 fully committed to addressing the expectations of our stakeholders 0.019 412 0.018 0.020 375 0.017 to build and operate TSFs responsibly.
325 474 Our tailings dams are designed and built following the 422 412 362 hydrological, geotechnical and structural design requirements of the Mexican authorities to resist extreme weather and seismic events.
We pay particular attention to the chemical stability of the 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 tailings, so the quality of any seepage does not represent a danger to human health or the environment.
We keep strict control of the water balance to prevent overtopping failures, and ban the use of tailings dams as water reservoirs.
We have diversion channels to prevent runoff water from entering the dam reservoir and seepage collection systems to protect the environment downstream.
In addition to our daily inspections and internal audits, we conduct third party stability reviews of the embankments of our operating and closed tailings dams in addition to regulatory inspections.
Facilities can be closed in a manner that is compatible with the surrounding environment.
Our historical tailings facility at Fresnillo, for example, now operate as an ecological park for the community and have the environmental quality certification from the Mexican Environment Ministry.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 90 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Environment continued Metallurgical waste Cyanide management: environmental aspects Metallurgical waste refers to piles of spent ore and the tailings Environmental protection measures are critical for cyanide produced by heap and dynamic leaching, respectively.
leaching systems: we operate in compliance with international best practices as put forth by the International Cyanide Cyanide-bearing mineral waste is disposed of safely.
We use Management Institute ICMI and the Mexican standard NOM-155 impermeable membranes at the base of geo-technically engineered SEMARNAT-2007 that establishes environmental requirements heaps and tailings to prevent seepage to groundwater and enhance for gold and silver leaching systems.
Geotechnical reviews are performed to ensure that the piles and embankments are safe.
Channels surrounding the Once gold and silver are extracted from the cyanide solution, heaps and contingency ponds are hydraulically designed to handle process water is reused in the leaching process: water is also flood flows caused by extreme rainfall events and monitoring harvested from the cyanide-bearing tailings and recirculation up and downstream proactively detects changes in water quality.
generates savings in cyanide, reductions to the fresh water Once extraction of ore from the mine is complete, the piles are footprint and elimination of discharges into water streams.
rinsed and allowed to drain down to ensure environmental 2016 2015 protection.
We consider progressive rehabilitation of mineral waste facilities is the best path for responsible mining.
Sodium cyanide NaCN tonne 10,117,133 8,451,315 Reporting boundary excludes San Julin.
Public policy Following recent international cases of tailing dam failures, Acid mine drainage Mexican authorities launched an extensive re-assessment of the Acid mine drainage AMD is a major environmental challenge for regulations for design and operation of tailings dams.
Uncontrolled AMD represents a risk to surface stakeholder group was formed to review a proposal based on the and groundwater resources during mine operation as well as a guidelines of the Mining Association of Canada MAC and the legacy issue after closure.
We analyse the mineral properties and Canadian Dam Association, both considered as the best available conduct geochemical tests to screen AMD potential of ore mineral practice.
Fresnillo plc participates in the process as an affiliated and waste rock.
In our operations with AMD risk, notably at San company of the Mexican Mining Chamber.
Ramn, we implement site-specific management strategies such Unit 2016 2015 as capping waste rock piles with a dry cover to reduce the entry of oxygen and water and collecting and treating acid water.
Mine waste Waste rock Tonne 161,143,531 162,064,121 Mexico is currently reviewing the norms that regulate the chemical Processing Tailings Tonne 6,030,362 5,877,794 analysis of tailings and their AMD potential.
The Mexican Mining waste Chamber participates in the consultation process of this regulation.
Metallurgical Tailings Tonne 2,969,759 2,925,918 waste What is acid mine drainage?
Heaps Tonne 39,570,603 37,366,591 Metallic ore deposits may contain abundant sulphide minerals.
Weathering of sulphides initiates an oxidation process that, Reporting boundary excludes San Julin.
uncontrolled, may lead to acid mine water low pH and mobilisation dissolving of metals and metalloids.
However, not all the ore Non-mineral and hazardous waste deposits with sulphides generate AMD.
Ore deposits may also Non-mineral wastes are most commonly managed through contain other minerals such as carbonates and silicates that act recycling, off-site treatment and disposal.
Hazardous wastes are as natural buffers, neutralising consuming acid water.
Hence, subject to strict regulation by Mexican authorities at our own AMD potential greatly depends on the relative proportion of acid storage facilities and at hazardous waste receiving facilities.
vs. neutralising minerals in the ore and gangue.
Public policy Communities Separate from the aforementioned supplemental carbon tax, We engage our neighbouring communities to raise environmental the state of Zacatecas introduced a US$5 MX$100 tax for the awareness through events such as World Water Day, World storage of waste rock and tailings.
We consider that revenue Environment Day and Tree Day.
We conduct talks, contests, oriented taxes on top of regulatory compliance reduces the performances and reforestation campaigns with elementary ability of companies to invest in technology for mineral waste schools and amongst our employees and contractors.
The Mexican Mining Chamber issued public statements urging the government of Zacatecas to reconsider such taxes that reduce the competitiveness of mining companies operating in the state.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS y L t i o r y g a e l t t n y I Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 91 2016 objectives Our People Train unionised workers in the ethics and integrity programme.
Strategic priority Enhance readiness of crisis committees at each To secure the talent pipeline and ensure a fair and business unit.
Implement information systems to manage contractor employees in our operations.
Approach We seek to attract, develop and retain the best people, and engage them over the long term.
2016 performance We work to develop an organisational culture based The ethics programme with unionised workers on trust, and to embed ethics and integrity into will be implemented after the second phase of the our culture in order to create a fair and respectful non-unionised workers.
We respect labour rights and engage Retrained crisis committees and performed union representatives constructively.
employment is one of the most important benefits Implemented software to better manage mining to the communities where we operate and a key contractors in our operations.
component to our social acceptability.
2017 objectives Implement the second phase of our ethics and integrity programme.
Ethics and culture We aspire to demonstrate a well-established ethical culture through our actions and behaviours.
In 2016, we updated our Code of Conduct to reflect learnings and higher expectations for ethics leadership, and joined the Business Ethics Leadership Alliance BELA of the Ethisphere Institute to identify and adopt ethical best practices from other companies.
We also approached the Center for Leadership Ethics of the Eller Business School at the University of Arizona to develop a customised approach to embed ethics in our culture.
We aim to encourage winning behaviours to embed ethics and integrity in our culture.
We engage our people to share why business ethics and integrity are key priorities for us, and provide training on how to enable and support these behaviours, including the use of our behavioural compass.
This tool serves as a guide to making decisions when faced with ethical dilemmas.
We communicate our policies throughout the year and in our Aguas Watch out campaigns.
Our values are the cornerstone of Ethics and Our moral compass with four simple rules to guide ethical Culture programme.
decision making: Am I following the rules?
Can I make an informed decision?
Have I thought about the consequences?
Could I explain this to my family and would they be happy?
Investment in training US$ Trust 1.60m 2.40 2.13 1.69 1.60 Maintenance Workshop at the Fresnillo mine 2013 2014 2015 2016 y t i l i b S i a s f n e o t p y s e R Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 92 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Our People continued Ethics and Integrity Strategy Aspirational statement As one of the leading precious metals companies, we aspire to have a well-established business ethics corporate culture demonstrated by our behaviours and actions.
Setting the tone Promoting ethical Managing Promoting decision making incentives openness Values Code of Conduct Monitoring Whistleblowing Tone from the top Training Rewards Open culture Advice Discipline Supporting winning behaviours Key initiatives for the second phase of our ethics and integrity programme: Participate in Ethispheres Ethics Quotient to assess our current programme and practices.
Monitoring our culture through Ethispheres ethical work climate survey and a custom made survey designed by the Center for Leadership Ethics.
Develop Ethics as a core competence through additional training, engagement and support mechanisms.
Honour Commission case investigations Key Harassment of employees 31% Theft 19% Corruption 15% with contractors or suppliers Other HR issues 12% Professional malpractice 11% Conflict of interest 4% Corruption with the government 4% Misuse of assets 4% FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 93 Human resources Child labour We seek to strengthen the talent pipeline to satisfy our present and Child labour deprives youth of their childhood, dignity and future business needs, ensuring we have the people with the right education.
Our minimum age for employment is 18, and we skill sets and development potential to execute our business strategy.
mandate such hiring practices for our contractors at all sites where we operate.
We contribute to the eradication of child Human and labour rights in the workplace labour in our communities by supporting school infrastructure We are strongly committed to internationally recognised human and reading and education programmes that improve educational and labour rights, and take necessary measures to prevent and opportunities for children.
The Honours Commission is responsible for investigating and sanctioning unethical behaviours, Forced labour UK Modern Slavery Act including infringements to human and labour rights.
To raise Modern Slavery makes reference to two types of offense: awareness of these issues, our Aguas Watch out campaign i slavery, servitude and forced or compulsory labour: engages people to speak out and denounce these behaviours and ii human trafficking.
in conjunction with our Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblowing programme.
This allows anyone to anonymously report incidents We require mining contractors and suppliers to comply with of discrimination or harassment, whether they involve a co-worker, our Code of Conduct, with contracts that stipulate compliance a supervisor or manager.
Whoever is found, after an appropriate with our health and safety policies and operating procedures.
investigation, to have engaged in discrimination or harassment, All contractors must register their employees with the Mexican is subject to appropriate disciplinary action, which, depending health and pension system IMSS, which in turn requires on the gravity, may include dismissal.
disclosure of compensation and working hours.
This year we conducted focus groups with employees and contractors to Working conditions evaluate their work experience and our corporate responsibility: Our approach to compensation is externally competitive and no evidence of modern slavery was detected.
Our employees and internally equitable.
We provide competitive wages and benefits contractors must treat members of the community with dignity matching or exceeding median wages in the countries where and respect.
Their behaviour must not impact the wellbeing of we operate.
In Mexico, we regularly conduct market reviews to vulnerable members of the community by engaging in activities ensure that compensation remains competitive.
In 2016, unionised such as compulsory labour or sexual exploitation.
All employees employees received a 5.5% raise while non-unionised staff received and contractors are encouraged to report any such incident on average a 4.5% raise.
to our whistleblowing line as mentioned above.
We offer non-unionised employees life insurance, health care, We intend to increase our programme with risk assessments, disability coverage, maternity and paternity leave, retirement due diligence and training tailored to the Modern Slavery Act.
provision, savings fund and profit sharing known as PTU in Mexico.
Our collective agreements with unionised-employees Unions: freedom of association consider compensation and working conditions, such as wages, We respect the rights of employees to freedom of association and recruitment and dismissals, shifts and working hours, national collective bargaining as laid out in Mexican law.
We are committed holidays, vacations, work permits, disciplinary measures, personal to building positive and productive relations with local labour equipment, training, health and safety, occupational diseases, unions through continuous dialogue and collaboration.
To date, life insurance, career opportunities rank, seniority, etc.
savings Fresnillo plc has not experienced a work stoppage or industrial fund and early retirement compensation.
action as a consequence of labour disputes.
Whenever there are redundancies in a mine or a specific Each business unit has a union committee with elected department, these employees are given preference over representatives.
We engage newly elected representatives of our new external candidates to fill open positions in other mines four committees with workshops to build responsible leadership or departments.
skills and to raise awareness of their rights and responsibilities.
Our HR superintendents are responsible for maintaining Discrimination permanent dialogue with these committees.
Our management We are committed to ensuring that our people are treated fairly teams in each operation organise results presentations several and with dignity in the workplace.
Hence, we do not tolerate any times a year to foster common understanding of the business.
form of harassment, intimidation or discrimination.
We promote We have embedded Health & Safety as a key cooperation topic equal opportunity in the workplace.
Employment and career with unions at the local and national level as part of our strategy development decisions must be based on performance, to develop a safety culture.
qualifications, skills, experience and ethical behaviour.
In 2016, we successfully negotiated the remuneration adjustment with the four committees.
Collective bargaining covers the Recognising that women are underrepresented in our workforce elements outlined in Working conditions above.
In 2016, the see Diversity on page 94, we implement rules for compensation incumbent union of our Penmont operation was challenged of non-unionised employees based on salary ranges that are gender by an opposing mining union, forcing an election specified independent.
Currently, differences in the compensation of women by Mexican law.
The incumbent union SNMM Frente won the with respect to men are due mainly to seniority in their positions.
election with 94% of the votes.
Difference in compensation between men and women in non-unionised and non-managerial roles Support and Underground operations Open pit operations administrative staff Overall First level Senior Engineer -4.05% -3.13% -13.58% -7.38% Second level Junior Engineer -6.70% -1.20% 0.11% -4.14% Third level Assistant -21.10% -0.58% 46.00% -5.76% Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 94 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Our People continued Diversity: women in mining merit must remain the key criteria for employment and career We recognise that diversity in the workforce brings a range development decisions.
Hence, our efforts focus on engaging of perspectives and skills that make companies stronger.
unions on the role of diversity and hiring and developing women with educational training in mining engineering, geology, finance Our gender diversity indicators cover the full workforce: however, and accounting.
the Company can address the diversity gap amongst its nonunionised employees more readily.
Some highlights: Great Place to Work Trust Index Fresnillo plc was recognised as a Great Place to Work in Women represent 13.5% of our non-unionised employees Mexico in 2016, as a result of the Great Place to Work perception with an average seniority of 6.5 years.
survey conducted to measure the quality of the workplace 44% of women are employed in operational engineering experience according to the level of trust, pride and camaraderie roles: the remaining are in support or administrative functions amongst employees.
finance, accounting, community relations, etc.. 13% of non-unionised woman earned a promotion in 2016.
Women are underrepresented within our Company and in the mining industry in general.
Attracting women to mining roles in Mexico depends on a deep change in the perceptions on the role of gender in these positions.
This will take time to rectify but it has been changing, particularly in relation to unionised workers in underground operations.
Although many companies have decided to set numerical targets for diversity, we consider that skills and Voluntary labour turnover Gender diversity % % Key Key Total turnover Gender diversity Voluntary labour turnover Gender diversity managers 10.48 9.40 9.21 8.83 8.50 8.19 8.33 7.77 6.29 5.48 5.39 4.69 4.35 4.07 3.85 3.45 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of permanent employee resignations as a percentage of total permanent Percentage of women, and female managers.
Employees and contractors Unionised workers Average workforce training Average HSECR training hours hours Key Key Employees Non-unionised workers Contractors Unionised workers 89 50 7,815 69 3,324 3,840 3,292 100 3,589 89 57 87 85 55 2,684 3,150 2,610 50 4,191 4,293 3,501 3,262 969 899 817 652 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 95 2016 objectives Community Relations Review results of perception studies: leverage insights to improve social investment and engagement strategies.
Design and implement a protocol to conduct follow-up Strategic priority visits to the operations and projects.
To engage with and support the development Ongoing adoption and maturity of best practices of our communities.
Approach Our communities are strategic partners.
Having their 2016 performance trust requires effectively engaging them and being Outcomes of perception studies of Penmont, Fresnillo, accountable for our impacts.
We recognise that Saucito, Cinega and San Julin were analysed and building trust is the only way to obtain and preserve action plans are under development.
our social licence to operate.
Our corporate strategy Developed a methodology to assess and monitor covers all phases of the mining cycle, and our social stakeholder engagement efforts in the operations investments target development levers such as and projects.
education, capacity building and infrastructure.
Two best practices have been identified: human rights We also contribute to social welfare public health, due diligence and resettlements.
Current practices will social interaction and sports and help raise be integrated into a Social Management System.
environmental awareness within our communities.
2017 objectives Standardise stakeholder engagement plans.
Enhance our approach to social baseline and perception studies.
Sponsor a reading and an entrepreneurial programme.
Introduce the second phase of the Silver Saves Lives project.
Social Management System We formalised our management system in 2016 to provide guidance on tools and best practices to implement our strategy.
Our Management System consists of procedures distributed across the phases of mining following our approach Know the community, Engage effectively and Build with the community.
These processes are tracked in our Borealis Information System.
59m 2.65 2.59 2.21 2.14 2013 2014 2015 2016 2 1 3 Effective Knowledge Develop Engagement Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 96 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Community Relations continued Advancing our knowledge Engaging effectively We build our knowledge of communities by identifying Effective engagement improves our understanding of community stakeholders and understanding their positions on key issues.
expectations and builds mutually beneficial relationships With the support of the Borealis Information System we throughout the life of our mines.
We aim to engage early in the track our stakeholder registry, informal and formal meetings, process to manage community expectations and develop trust incident and commitment registries and grievances.
Continuous through the mining lifecycle.
Building a reservoir of stakeholder engagement and comprehensive social analyses help us gain capital is key to resilience when challenges arise.
The focus of further understanding of the risks and opportunities in the our engagement efforts changes over the lifecycle of operations, communities where we operate.
as follows: Baseline and social impact assessments in projects Exploration Our exploration teams are the first to establish We conduct social baseline studies to better understand the contact with the community.
Our stakeholders socio-economic conditions of new projects and social impact are identified and the engagement efforts assessment to better understand how our projects might positively focus on obtaining temporary land access or negatively impact local communities.
We recently conducted to explore and assessing social risks.
studies for our exploration projects at Orysivo, el Gigante and Project The identification and relation with our Las Torres.
feasibility stakeholders deepens in this phase of the development cycle.
Local hiring, contracts and social Perception studies in our operations investment are part of our efforts to build trust.
We periodically commission comprehensive perception studies We conduct social risk assessments in our to measure the effectiveness of our strategy and to deepen advanced feasibility and development projects.
our insight on the issues that matter to our communities.
These These studies facilitate the identification of the aim to evaluate how we are perceived as employers, neighbours issues that matter to the community.
and to what extent our credibility, environmental and social Operation We engage the communities regularly with commitment are recognised.
The results are analysed by senior formal and informal meetings to manage managers and community relations teams and help us evaluate their expectations and detect risks and the success of our engagement and social investment opportunities.
Comprehensive perception approaches, identify risks and opportunities, and determine studies help to monitor the perception of the how we should advance our engagement and social investment benefits and the assessment of the issues that in order to improve performance.
To help create a consistent approach across our operations, development projects and exploration sites, we are working to develop a standard for stakeholder engagement plans.
These plans will be based on stakeholder identification, mapping and analysis, and will define the engagement approach formal, informal meetings, consultations, etc.
How we engage communities in the life of a mine.
Exploration Project Operation Closure Stakeholder analysis Information system Media monitoring Studies baseline, perception and social risk Evaluation of partnerships with NGOs Activities with the communities Formal meetings informal meetings consultation communication Registry of incidents Registry of commitments Grievances Social investment Social investment committee Community requests Capacity building Local employment and local contractors FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 97 Land acquisition and resettlement Silver Saves Lives SSL Developing a mining project involves land acquisition and in The objective of the SSL initiative is to support vulnerable some cases, the resettlement of households.
We recognise that communities to increase safe water access in public spaces, these are complex and life-changing issues for the communities.
SSL is designed to propose a range of Poorly planned and managed, land acquisition and resettlement solutions depending on water sources and a communitys needs: can adversely impact the livelihoods and social structure of we anticipate working with a variety of knowledgable partners, communities, damage our relationships, or even cause conflict.
amongst them the communities themselves.
We recognise that the right to an adequate standard of living after land acquisition and resettlement projects is a basic human right.
We implemented water harvesting systems in four schools in the We seek to manage resettlement responsibly, respecting local laws Cinega community.
This pilot project was assessed by a third and adopting international best practices.
party to provide objective feedback that can be integrated into the next phase of the project for which planning is underway: No resettlement occurred at our operations during 2016. we aim to launch this initiative in Penmont, San Julin and Saucito.
Nonetheless, we are developing guidance for resettlements, including social baseline and asset surveys, entitlement and To raise awareness and foster acceptability in this first phase, compensation framework, negotiation, livelihood restoration we organised educational, information and training sessions: art programmes and ongoing monitoring and evaluation.
In 2017, workshops, mural paintings, and storytelling aided by photography we will further develop our guidance, ensuring that it meets aimed at bridging the divide between mine and community.
the criteria set by the International Finance Corporation IFC Our aim is to create a conversation both visual and oral on local Performance Standard 5 on Land Acquisition and Involuntary water needs, the surrounding environment and the possibility Resettlement, and that it considers lessons learned by other of collectively becoming water stewards in the region.
companies, notably those operating in Mexico.
Education We aim to avoid resettlements by exploring alternative designs, In line with SDG 4, we seek to ensure inclusive and quality but when unavoidable, we will work together with affected education for all and to promote lifelong learning.
We collaborate households, communities and governments to minimise adverse with communities in programmes to engage children to read, impacts, restoring or improving livelihoods and living conditions.
We see education as a key lever to reduce poverty and inequality.
Developing with the community We engage local authorities to fund infrastructure projects with Along with the INNOVEC partnership for improving the the Mining Fund in the communities where we operate.
We partner teaching of science in the neighbouring communities of Fresnillo with the UNAM Foundation and local health authorities to organise and Saucito, we also engaged technical high schools in our health weeks that benefit communities with free health care.
communities of Penmont and Fresnillo to get familiar with We continue to build on our partnership with INNOVEC and the the FIRST For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and government of the state of Zacatecas to support the teaching of Technology Robotics Competition FRC.
We will partner with science in elementary schools.
Several schools in the neighbouring these schools to enrol teams in the next robotics competition.
communities of Fresnillo and Saucito receive government funding Engineers of Fresnillo will coach students in the FRC to build to implement this innovative programme, which trains and equips a robot that can perform certain tasks.
schools to teach science in an experiential manner that piques the curiosity of children.
Children who develop solid reading skills perform better at school and improve their potential for full participation in society.
Strategic social investment Recognising the importance of reading, we have partnered with Health the NGO International Board on Books for Young People IBBY In support of SDG 3, we seek to ensure healthy lives and to bring books and children together in the communities where promote wellbeing.
We operate in some communities where we operate.
With the valuable support of IBBY Mexico, we opened access to healthcare is a stakeholder concern either due to remote some Bunkos in our communities of Cinega and close to geographic location or low socioeconomic levels, making access Penmont, and one for the children of our employees at Fresnillo.
Cooperation with NGOs and local health Bunkos are small community libraries where volunteers read aloud authorities is crucial to foster a preventive and self-care culture.
to children and facilitate discussions.
Unlike traditional libraries, Please refer to page 80-81 for further information.
Bunkos offer a space where children can choose their own readings and discuss their ideas with other children.
In 2017, Health Weeks we will expand the project with a target of Bunkos in 58 schools In 2016, we organised health weeks at Cinega, the Fresnillo district in the communities of Cinega, Penmont, Saucito, Fresnillo, and Penmont.
San Julin, Orisyvo and Gigante Guanajuato projects.
IBBY will guide us on the choice of books, the initial training of teachers, Water monitoring of progress and coaching of the teachers.
Access to safe drinking water is a major global challenge.
We are committed to SDG 6, to ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all.
We collaborate with communities through water and sanitation infrastructure funded by the Mining fund, direct social investment and raising awareness of environmental care.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 98 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Community Relations continued Capacity building Engaging authorities to benefit our communities We support SDG 8, to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable with the Mining Fund economic growth, full and productive employment and decent We partner with communities to engage local authorities and work for all.
regional Mining Fund committees to consider funding projects in the communities where we operate.
The outcomes of the Local suppliers perception surveys and regular engagement were used to identify Promoting small and medium businesses is key to social the most relevant infrastructure issues for the communities.
We are committed We supported the communities with the preliminary design and to developing and hiring local suppliers.
We have more than 230 budgeting of project proposals for water and wastewater projects, local suppliers providing services to our mines and exploration pavement, lightning, education infrastructure, sanitation and projects.
We collaborate with the NGO Proempleo to train, coach landfills, among others.
and develop the skills of small businesses.
We believe that a key success factor to raising social acceptability Engaging municipalities to diversify their economies rests on the willingness of municipalities to allocate a reasonable In 2017, we will collaborate with municipal governments to develop part of their funds to those communities near mining operations.
entrepreneurs in Fresnillo, Cinega and Penmont.
With the 2016 2015 assistance of NGOs and consultants, we will engage municipalities to identify business opportunities to diversify local economies from Mining Fund US$ million 32.7 11.4 mining.
Preparing communities in advance is key to preparing for mine closure.
Economic impact Our economic contribution creates value in the regions where Infrastructure we operate through total wages and benefits, payments to local We invest strategically in social infrastructure and collaborate contractors and suppliers, and municipal, state and federal taxes.
with communities to engage municipalities to fund infrastructure projects in their communities with the Mining Fund.
US$ million Wages and benefits of workers 71.29 Payments to suppliers contractors 894.23 Payments to local governments 2.15 Payments to federal government 273.33 1,241.00 Rural entrepreneurs in San Julin Our San Julin project supports farmers and other rural producers to improve their production and marketing systems by joining one of the Strategic Projects for Food Security known in Spanish as PESA.
PESA projects are implemented by Rural Development Agencies ADRs using strategies of the Food and Agriculture Organisation FAO.
A group of farmers from eight of our communities are currently local suppliers of vegetables, eggs and pork meat.
Through technical support, their production improved to comply with the quality standards of our dining facilities.
In addition, in the community of La Lagunita, a group of women entrepreneurs launched a bakery with the support of the community, the Mexican National Council for Culture and Arts CONACULTA and the San Julin Project.
With their bakery they are now self-employed and have created jobs for 15 more people, preserving the tradition of making bread in wood-fired ovens.
Their bread is sold to the Company, in the community and nearby communities.
A similar group of entrepreneurial woman from the community of Las Papas launched a tortillera a tortilla bakery to supply our dining facilities.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 99 Performance indicators Community investment by strategic lever % Community investment by business unit % Key Key Community capacity Cinega 11% building 9% Explorations 5% Education 33% Fresnillo 62% Social welfare 50% Penmont 14% Infrastructure 3% Servicos Administrativos Environmental awareness 5% Fresnillo 6% Saucito 2% Activities by strategic lever % Explorations Activities by strategic lever % Operations Key Key Environmental awareness 37% Environmental awareness 17% Education 5% Education 28% Social welfare 57% Social welfare 44% Capacity building 1% Capacity building 11% Contributions requested by the community % Explorations Contributions requested by the community % Operations Key Key Accepted 92% Accepted 75% Rejected 8% Rejected 25% Economic value distributed % Economic value distributed by state % Key Key Wages and benefits of workers 5.7% Zacatecas 21.7% Payments to suppliers contractors 72.1% Sonora 31.5% Payments to local governments 0.2% Durango 8.5% Payments to federal government 22.0% Chihuahua 6.1% Guanajuato 4.9% Mexico City 14.8% Estado fide Mexico 3.0% Coahuila 9.5%
