CSR performance We made good progress in a number of key CSR areas in 2016.
In this section, OUR PERFORMANCE we cover some of the key actions undertaken in the last year.
IN 2016 A more detailed discussion of our CSR approach can be found online in the 2016 CSR Report at www.
com csr2016 CSR HIGHLIGHTS % 3.6 13 402 7 4 3,000 Reduction in Top Employer Cases reported Deep dive reviews Human rights Managers have carbon intensity certifications and managed of safety in risk assessments completed online since 2015 in countries via our global high-priority of major business health and safety across Africa whistleblowing countries opportunities training modules system Speak Out during 2016 HEALTH AND SAFETY Introduced a new online safety training module covering minimum health and safety requirements since 2015, over 3,000 managers have completed online health and safety modules.
Conducted health and safety control self-assessments in all countries as part of the Groups risk and compliance systems.
Completed seven Group-led deep dive reviews of safety in high-priority countries.
Introduced safety improvement programmes for specific risk areas such as motorcycle safety.
Road traffic related fatalities have decreased by 20% since 2013 when our road safety programme was launched.
30 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report HUMAN RIGHTS Conducted a global human Undertook four human rights rights assessment.
risk assessments relating to new business opportunities under Completed human rights review by the Group self-assessments of Investment Committee.
businesses operating in high-risk environments.
Business units across the Group have undertaken local human rights risk assessments.
ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION Improved awareness of the Completed review of Speak Out whistleblowing the Groups anti-bribery system, resulting in a marked and corruption policies.
increase in the number of issues raised.
402 cases reported and managed via Speak Out during 2016.
Completed a review of our PEOPLE & VALUES Group values, resulting in the development of a core set of values which are more closely aligned to our strategy and business model.
Launched the new values across the Group with an internal Our Group strategy and communications campaign sustainability performance are highlighting our key values underpinned by our people and and behaviours.
In 2016 we achieved a Commenced the development number of important milestones: of values training and awareness Refreshed our human materials for new colleagues resources core standards and joining the Group.
delivered training to regional Achieved certification as a and country-level HR managers Top Employer in 13 countries to ensure their understanding across Africa by the Top of the Groups requirements.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 31
