42 Responsible Business It recommends annual goals and initiatives, and identifies We are committed to delivering results thekey performance indicators for monitoring and reporting responsibly.
Responsible is one of our ourperformance, which are summarised opposite.
core values as a business and we have The Committee comprises senior leaders who lead different aspects of the programme.
They meet quarterly to set objectives developed policies, practices and an and review progress.
The full list of members is provided on organisational culture that ensures our ourwebsite.
Company and all the people within it act A dedicated sub-committee focuses on animal well-being.
in an ethical, honest and trustworthy Amongits achievements this year were an update of the Companys global principles for animal well-being, including manner at all times.
global standards and policies, and the introduction of new online training, which is mandatory for all employees, irrespective of their role.
The membership of this sub-committee can also be This year, we have developed a new online portal to found on our dedicated Responsibility page on our website.
communicate our approach, practices and impact.
This can be found by visiting our website at www.
The portal Our Framework and Performance provides more detailed and regularly updated information, We translate our commitment to responsible business into a tocomplement the summary we provide below.
framework involving five pillars, which are summarised opposite together with our key achievements and objectives.
More detailed Our Foundation for Success information on our performance is included on our website.
Our commitment to operating responsibly is overseen by the Board.
The Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee We have previously included a section on employees in this defines our strategy, reviews our policies and practices, framework but have removed this to avoid duplication of monitors external developments and advises the Genus material in the Our People and Culture section of this report.
Executive Leadership Team GELT and the Audit Committee.
Achievements against the targets are included on page 40.
Greenhouse Gas GHG Reporting GHG Emissions for 2016 % Our GHG emissions are primarily methane produced by our animals and carbon dioxide CO from consuming fuel and 2 From livestock other materials, and transport.
Our primary intensity ratio 14 From third-party distribution is based on animal weight, which is a key driver of our GHG and business travel emissions.
Our secondary intensity ratio is based on turnover.
From other activities Our primary intensity ratio includes emissions which are 21 impacted mainly by the number and age of animals but also by emissions from our direct distribution and travel.
Animal weight reduced by 2,500 tonnes, driven by exiting owned farms in the 65 US and China, and emissions reduced as a result.
However, emissions from other sources such as direct distribution remained constant and as a result the primary intensity ratio increased.
Our secondary intensity ratio was stable year to year.
GHG data is therefore reported for assets, which are mainly rented or leased, that are otherwise not referred to elsewhere Our Reporting Approach in the financial statements.
We omitted JVs and some livestock We use operational control as our reporting approach.
We have held at third-parties due to our limited authority to introduce determined and reported the emissions we are responsible for and implement operating policies.
within this boundary and believe there are no material omissions.
2016 2015 Assessment methodology Tonnes Tonnes World Resources Institute World Business Emissions from of CO e of CO e 2 2 Council for Sustainable Development.
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Scope 1 combustion of fuel, livestock emissions and direct Accounting and Reporting Standard distribution and travel 64,655 68,562 Scope 2 electricity, steam, heat and cooling purchased 16,798 22,569 DEFRA Guidance on how to measure and report your greenhouse gas emissions Total scope 1 & 2 81,453 91,131 DEFRA Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Scope 3 material usage and waste and indirect distribution and Including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance travel 28,433 21,160 Total emissions 109,886 112,291 Emissions factor data source IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Primary intensity measure Animal weight tonne 10,249 12,723 Gas Inventories DEFRA DECC Conversion Factors for Secondary intensity measure Turnover m 388.3 398.5 Company Reporting Primary intensity ratio Scope 1 & 2 tCO e tonne animal weight 7.95 7.16 2 Secondary intensity ratio Scope 1, 2 & 3 tCO e m turnover 283 282 2 Annual emissions figures have been calculated based on actual ten-month data for July to April extrapolated to full year.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 43 Link to Strategy Visit www.
com to read more 1 Increasing Genetic Control and Product Differentiation about our Responsible Business 2 Targeting Key Markets and Segments 3 Sharing in the Value Delivered What we do Highlights What we plan to do next 83% of staff completed training tailored Reduce our vehicle incident frequency Operate Safely totheir role target 90%.
rate in the UK and US fleets.
Ensuring a safe working Significant improvement in incident Increase Near-Miss reporting for all reporting, and reviewed by COOs.
environment for our Improved reporting resulted in an increase Reduce number of recordable colleagues in incidents on owned property in 2015 16, incidents on non-owned premises.
with actions taken to mitigate risk.
1, 2 As a result of incident types, 94% of those working directly with animals received advanced training in animal handling and we conducted a safe driving initiative in theUK.
Introduced new animal well-being training, Continue our programme of PQAAnimal Well-Being completed by 97% of employees.
Continually improving Continued our global Pork Quality Roll-out global animal care and wellAssurance PQA based training in PIC being standards and processes in PIC animal welfare, through owned production facilities.
proven science-based Introduced new diet to improve bull wellContinue audits at ABS owned and being in all ABS and JV studs.
initiatives All ABS and JV studs were audited and Continue upgrade of PIC owned 1, 2, 3 actions executed.
production facilities in the United Upgraded our Genetic Nucleus site in States and Canada.
Continued to respond to crises that Continue to respond to crises, support Community affected those who work with us, providing Send a Cow and recruit into our farms Being a responsible practical support.
Continued supporting the charity Send a corporate citizen, within Cow, with 61 cows now provided through our communities the charity.
Recruited over 150 staff into our farms from 1, 2 local communities across our PIC and ABS production sites globally.
Continued external audits of Genus PICs Continue Genus PICs external audits, Environment waste management systems, to cover 80% to cover 80% of animals on owned Reducing the of animals on owned sites.
Improved feed efficiency by 0.02kg of feed Improve feed efficiency by 0.02kg of environmental impact of per kg of pork.
protein production Upgraded the Genus ABS production estate, including landscaping our Dekorra site with 1, 2 500 trees.
Using genomic selection, the value of PIC Continue to increase the rate of Food Quality genetics improved by $3.15, providing genetic improvement to help produce highly productive, high health pigs highly productive, high health pigs.
andSecurity seepage 16 for more information.
Maintain current genetic lag levels Providing expertise and Reduced genetic lag in the PIC supply chain across the global PIC supply chain.
Improve milk production and herd products that increase Improved milk production and herd sustainability through IVF technology, the production of highsustainability with TransitionRight, genetic audits and mating tools, and quality protein Genetic Management Service GMS 2.0, IVF the use of relevant trait indices in technology and ABS Neo.
1, 2, 3 Introduced high-quality dairy genetics into Export of live elite bulls to step up India through our new JV bull stud.
