SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Conducting business the right way GKNs approach to sustainability We are constantly seeking better ways of communicating with and training our people is summed up in one phrase: doing to ensure they deliver on expectations.
We the right thing by our people, use a number of different techniques to as a business, and in our world.
The best way of getting most This means acting in a safe, ethical messages across has always been through talking to employees and listening.
Across manner in everything we do.
By our organisation there are a range of conducting business the right way, face-to-face meetings and the monthly PCI every employee can contribute to sessions are an excellent temperature check the long-term success of the Group.
Weekly briefings in our plants ensure employees understand how I visit many different sites across the world they can help us succeed and regular HR and am always impressed how GKN people, sessions help cascade important messages Nigel Stein at every level, are doing their best to do the throughout the organisation and improve the Chief Executive right thing, day in, day out.
Backing this up is intranetAfter consultation and discussion, we also based news, digital dashboards and targeted codified what makes GKN the company it is online training sessions to ensure our people and summarised it in what we call the GKN not only understand our values and know DNA see page 20.
The GKN commitment what is expected of them, but also get to see to doing the right thing is a fundamental part how we are doing in achieving our objectives.
of this DNA and this report sets out some of I am proud to lead such a committed GKN the main ways we aim to achieve it across team.
We have seen many improvements GKN.
It is supported by the GKN Code see across our business during 2016 and this page 53 which guides how we act and the is due to the hard work of our employees principles we follow to ensure we live our around the world.
We must strive to keep improving, and I know Our leaders play an integral role in explaining that with the commitment of our people and what is expected of GKN people.
They provide the quality of our leadership we are building a strong sense of direction and are expected a sustainable future for GKN.
to always act to stop behaviour which is inconsistent with the Code, helping create an environment of trust.
At GKN we believe in honest and proper conduct and will tolerate nothing less.
50 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Doing the right thing Our core value can be summed up in one simple phrase: doing the right thing.
By our people As a business In our world We believe in: We believe in: We believe in: providing a safe working creating a high performance helping to protect the environment environment business supporting local communities respecting the rights of others honest and proper conduct.
developing our people See pages 56 and 57 about how See pages 58 and 59 about how speaking up when we see we do the right thing as a business we do the right thing in our world behaviour which is wrong.
See pages 52 to 55 about how we do the right thing by our people GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Sustainability report continued Our people At GKN, doing the right thing by Providing a safe working environment our people means promoting a safe working environment, respecting the rights of others, developing our employees, encouraging a diverse workforce and building an environment where people feel comfortable speaking up if they see behaviour which is wrong.
This approach helps GKN develop an outstanding team recruiting the very best talent and creating a workforce of engaged colleagues around the world.
2016 performance Two fatalities occurred during 2016.
Lessons learned have been communicated across the Group.
Reduction of accident frequency rate AFR and accident severity rate ASR to 0.96 and 20 respectively, and a planned increase in near miss reporting following the launch of an internal near miss app.
63 health, safety and environment audits carried out globally.
Further deployment of our global personal safety programme thinkSAFE!
which received an external award from EEF, the manufacturers organisation.
Full integration of Fokker Technologies into GKN health, safety and environment systems.
Five health and safety enforcement actions, resulting in penalties of $11,800 in the US and 440 in Romania.
2017 priorities Further development of our thinkSAFE!
programme, with a focus on behavioural safety and occupational hygiene.
Prepare to transition to the new ISO 45001 international standard for occupational health and safety management.
Develop a global contractor accreditation programme.
The health and safety of our people is our for both incidents and lessons learned have number one priority.
However, we regret been communicated across the Group, there were two fatal accidents during 2016. including the strengthening of internal A contract construction worker at the GKN processes for managing visitors and Driveline Roxboro plant in the US suffered contractors on site and workplace a fatal injury when he fell from height, and movement of vehicles and pedestrians.
an employee at the Hoeganaes plant in We are, however, pleased with our progress Buzau, Romania, suffered a fatal injury in reducing the overall accident frequency following a workplace transport incident.
rate AFR by 20% compared with 2015 We deeply regret the loss of these lives and 13% including Fokker, and our accident have provided support to all those involved severity rate ASR by 49% no change with the incidents and the families of the including Fokker.
We achieved this through deceased.
A full investigation was carried out 52 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Respecting the rights of others 20% 2016 performance Reduction in AFR to 0.96 2015: 1.20 100% of leaders completed our Leadership Assurance process, including Fokker for the first time.
49% Further development of diversity and inclusion D&I awareness action plans and Reduction in ASR to 20 2015: 39 D&I awareness sessions were rolled out to employees, building on the training given to our senior leaders during 2015.
Flexible working pilots were rolled out at selected sites.
A programme was piloted to develop high potential female employees into leadership roles.
22,500 New recruitment guidance and Appointment Policy issued to align with D&I priorities.
Near misses reported 2015: 8,500 2017 priorities Establish D&I mentorship programmes.
continued deployment of our thinkSAFE!
programme and general improvements Introduce global flexible working guidelines.
in occupational health management and Group safety standards.
During 2016, we GKN Code Diversity and inclusion successfully integrated Fokker into our GKN health and safety systems, with a much The GKN Code describes how we conduct Our aim is to ensure that our workforce is improved performance as they progressed business in order to build a long-term, representative of the countries and markets throughout the year.
In 2017, Fokker will be sustainable future for GKN and ensure our in which we operate and the communities fully incorporated into GKN HSE reporting.
business continues to be run in an ethical in which we are located, including an and socially responsible manner.
It requires appropriate mix of gender and other We continued to focus on near miss incident all Group companies to treat employees fairly under-represented groups.
reporting, with 22,500 near misses being and with respect, recognising their abilities, reported this year 2015: 8,500 supported In 2015, we set a goal for 2020 that 20% differences and achievements.
All GKN by the launch of an internal near miss app, of GKNs leadership should be women and, employees and Board members must follow which allows for better reporting and visibility in time, 20% be from under-represented the Code.
It sets out our company values, of near misses.
Near misses are a key leading groups.
As of 31 December 2016, women which guide us in the way we do business, indicator of potential incidents and reporting made up 13.8% of leaders, and underand the standards of behaviour expected in is vital in allowing us to learn from them to represented groups accounted for 12.0% support of these values.
Each year, all GKN avoid future accidents.
of leaders see page 39. leaders are required to confirm that they We help employees with their personal safety understand the values and behaviours This year, we updated our Appointment through our global programme, thinkSAFE!.
expected of them as leaders in promoting the Policy outlining our hiring procedures for The programme covers key health and safety right behaviours within GKN.
All our leaders both internal and external recruitment in topics in 26 languages and, in 2016, we certified they had done so.
order to attract, retain and develop the best developed new ebrochures to raise awareness talent.
D&I core belief statements have been of hand injuries, electricity, lock out tag out, established that reinforce the importance of waste and workplace transport.
Auditing is key to maintaining safety standards.
As at 31 December 2016 Men Women In 2016, we carried out 63 health and safety GKN plc Board 8 2 audits.
We shared the key learnings and best practice from these audits across the Group.
1 Senior managers 342 34 We continued to strengthen our catastrophic 2 Total employees 41,618 8,341 risk management programme based on the BowTie model with further site-based 1 Comprises GKN senior executives and, as required by s414C training, increasing the number of risk of the Companies Act 2006, GKN subsidiary company directors.
assessments and implementing appropriate 2 Excluding joint ventures.
The vast majority of our manufacturing sites continue to be certified to the health and safety standard OHSAS 18001 or equivalent, while a small number are working towards certification.
Work has started on the transition to the new ISO 45001 international standard which is due during 2017.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Sustainability report continued Developing our people We are committed to helping all our 2016 performance employees succeed in developing their career and achieving their potential.
Integration of our existing online learning management system Academy into our Providing support and opportunities for MyGKN system.
our employees to grow is integral to the GKN Launch of the GKN DNA and Leadership Behaviours across the Group.
A clear understanding of how we are each performing is an important part of this Introduction of a new global employee engagement survey and refresh of our and changes to the GKN performance Positive Climate Index PCI measurement tool.
management criteria made during 2016 Change in the criteria used to assess the performance of all employees to make have improved how this happens.
them simpler and easier to understand.
We aim to support all our employees through training, development opportunities and regular feedback.
We chart progress 2017 priorities through managerial and technical career Integration of the GKN DNA and Leadership Behaviours into our recruitment paths, supported by focused assessment processes, and alignment with our performance evaluation and objective and training.
In 2016, our online learning tool was Roll out training for all managers on performance management.
upgraded and integrated into MyGKN, our HR system.
Nearly 10,000 online Continue to address the issues that matter to our employees shown by the courses were completed in the year by EngageMe survey during 2016.
The survey will be conducted again in 2017.
Launch resourcing pilot to enable better recruitment.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT A new employee engagement survey was introduced in 2016 to help make GKN a better place to work and help build a highperformance culture.
The EngageMe survey, available in 22 different languages, will run annually across GKN.
In partnership with an external provider, it enables us to benchmark against other organisations and prioritise actions that will ultimately improve the day-to-day experience for all our people, so that they can be at their best, every day.
In 2016, more than 41,000 82% employees took part in the survey that asked them to anonymously tell us how they feel about working for GKN.
Feedback reports were provided to teams in every location and action plans to further improve engagement and performance are now under way.
Additionally, and in support of this annual survey, we updated our Positive Climate Index PCI sessions to improve the way we listen to employees.
On a regular basis employees are invited to attend sessions, run across all sites, to gather feedback and discuss employee opinions about working for GKN.
The process requires each business to record the collective engagement result each month.
PCI performance continues to be a valued measure of business performance and is a key element of all monthly divisional operational reviews.
54 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Speaking up when we see The Group has an organisation-wide behaviour which is wrong succession planning and development programme to help our people develop the 2016 performance capabilities required to deliver our business plan.
In 2016, the Group internal recruitment The GKN Code was communicated across Fokker Technologies, making clear what rate for management roles was 70% 2015: behaviours are expected of all GKN employees.
Voluntary turnover of management employees, which excludes compulsory Received and investigated 187 calls through our employee disclosure hotline.
redundancies, terminations and retirements, was 6.0% 2015: 4.1%, falling outside our 2017 priorities target range of less than 5.0%.
Continue to emphasise and promote speaking up throughout GKN.
GKN Leadership Behaviours In 2016, we introduced the GKN DNA, Speaking up a simple set of principles that summarise We continue to actively promote the our culture see page 20.
These principles 187 importance of our confidential employee are supported by the GKN Leadership disclosure hotline, available to all employees Behaviours which make clear what is Calls to employee disclosure hotline who can raise concerns in their own language, expected of all our people to ensure we live in 2016 2015: 158 anonymously if they prefer.
It is hosted by the GKN DNA every day.
During 2017, our an external, independent company and is performance and career management available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
system will be updated to align with the In 2016, there were 187 calls to the hotline, GKN DNA and Leadership Behaviours.
Matters reported are independently investigated and Graduates and apprentices feedback is always provided to the caller.
In 2016, we continued to run both Groupwide and divisional graduate programmes to attract high-quality graduates, but with GKN Aerospace was named as one of the UKs a renewed focus to strengthen the links Top 100 Apprentice Employers in 2016 by the between these programmes to ensure National Apprenticeship Service.
Programme managers from across the Group came together for the first time during the year to begin this process, which will continue in 2017.
The Group-wide International Graduate Programme IGP attracts graduates from China, the US, India, Sweden, Germany and the UK.
Each participant undertakes a series of work placements, providing experience across a range of divisions, functions and cultures, developing potential future leaders for GKN.
In total during the year, across the IGP and divisional programmes, GKN recruited 155 graduates, including 36 women.
GKN also has a strong apprenticeship programme, which combines practical skills with classroom learning.
At the end of the year, there were almost 900 apprentices across the Group.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Sustainability report continued Our business We believe in building a high Creating a high performance business performance business and are committed to delivering safe, 2016 performance high quality products and services.
We also believe in creating a culture The Group Quality Committee continued to drive standardisation and best practice sharing throughout our quality management systems.
of continuous improvement across GKN, applying the Lean Enterprise Modularisation of Lean courses has shown real benefits for candidates allowing faster progression, eliminating duplication and the introduction of further model to everything that we do.
While we want to win in business, Launched an initiative to introduce cobots collaborative robots across the Group.
we must do so fairly, and the GKN Code requires honest and proper conduct from all GKN 2017 priorities employees.
We also expect the Continue the work of the Group Quality Commitee to further strengthen our same from our suppliers and quality processes.
Build cross-functional strengths and collaboration in order to exploit the advantages of Industry 4.0.
Continuous improvement CI Almost 280 leaders received GKN Lean training during the year delivered by GKNs We are committed to a culture of zero own Lean experts.
defects and continuous improvement, and GKNs Lean Enterprise model provides a 2016 saw a further increase in the level well-established framework for CI across the of Business Process Excellence training Group.
Employees from office, factory floor reflecting the importance placed on applying and executive levels are trained to identify Lean principles across the whole business, value for customers and shareholders: to not just the shop floor.
eliminate waste: to remove barriers: and to develop skills in coaching and problem solving.
During 2016, GKN was named one of COBOTICS Britains Most Admired Companies, winning the Engineering Aero & Defence Cobots, collaborative robots, are an exciting category of the awards produced by new technology offering considerable Management Today and Leeds Business advantages over conventional robots.
School which assesses the reputation of In March 2016 we launched a challenge the UKs biggest businesses in the eyes across the Group to think differently and of their peers.
We now have 34 cobot projects in progress across all divisions covering a wide range of applications.
Right: A cobot in action on an assembly line at GKN Driveline in Koping, Sweden.
56 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Honest and proper conduct 2016 performance Rolled out a refresher training programme on Competition Law.
278 Launched the GKN Governance Handbook in early 2016. leaders trained in Lean principles Completed an assessment of the risk of slavery in our supply chain.
in 2016 2017 priorities Roll out refresher training courses on anti-bribery and corruption.
Further strengthen our processes to manage the slavery risk in our supply chain.
Quality Governance Suppliers We are committed to supplying safe and The GKN Governance Handbook was Our suppliers are integral to the sustainability high quality products and services, judging launched early in 2016.
It provides our of our business.
We are committed to treating our performance from the point of view of people with transparent and easy access to all our suppliers and partners with fairness our customers.
Robust quality management our core Group policies and procedures and and integrity.
Our supply chain management systems are in place across all divisions, with helps ensure all our businesses are aware policy sets out the principles and procedures relevant industry standards held across the of what is expected of them in respect of each GKN company should follow when Group.
The Voice of the Customer initiative, those policies.
dealing with suppliers and potential suppliers.
launched in 2014, which tracks online Our Supplier Code of Conduct continues customer scoring of our performance, is to be our key tool in communicating what Human rights now firmly established in the monthly we expect from our suppliers in relation to divisional operational review process, and A respect for human rights is implicit in our health, safety and environmental standards, we judge ourselves using our customers values and the policies which underpin them.
internationally accepted standards of workers quality data on our performance.
2016 saw We support the Universal Declaration of rights, use of child and forced labour, ethical an improvement in these metrics.
Human Rights and do not tolerate the use standards, anti-bribery and corruption, of child labour or forced labour.
We have and compliance with relevant laws and completed a Modern Slavery risk assessment regulations.
The Code of Conduct is enforced within our supply chain during 2016 and will by our contractual terms and conditions.
use the results of this to direct further work We have continued to emphasise compliance in this area during 2017. with global standards to ensure that conflict minerals are kept out of the supply chain, Compliance training and to ensure compliance with European REACH guidance on the use of chemicals Our online compliance training modules within our businesses.
continue to be an important element of our overall compliance programmes.
We target training to employees whose roles require it and periodically update our materials and audiences in order to align them with our risks.
During 2016, we rolled out a refresher programme on compliance with Competition and Antitrust laws.
Of those targeted, 96% being 14,300 since its launch completed anti-bribery and corruption training, 95% completed competition law and export control training 4,100 and 7,400 respectively since their launch, and 92% 20,200 completed online IT security training.
All new starters are required to complete the online courses appropriate to their role, which are supplemented by face-to-face training for 94% higher risk individuals.
During 2016, we have harmonised the course content of our Anti of target employees completed online Bribery and Corruption and Competition Law compliance training eLearning packages across GKN and the newly acquired Fokker businesses.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Sustainability report continued Our world We aim to reduce the impact Helping to protect the environment that both our operations and our customers have on the 2016 performance environment.
Our products are 4% improvement in energy efficiency.
designed to perform better than 4% reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions.
their predecessors, be that lighter, 16 sites are now certified to ISO 50001 Energy Management Standard.
more efficient or resulting in less Fokker Technologies is now fully integrated into our GKN environmental systems.
Around the world, our sites There were five environmental enforcement actions in 2016 resulting in penalties and employees work hard to of $4,600.
support the communities in which 2017 priorities they operate.
As a company, GKN contributes by building Train our energy experts to make effective use of the energy monitoring system to drive further efficiency gains and emission reductions.
partnerships with schools and Deliver thinkWATER!
academic institutions, and inspiring Increase the number of sites certified to ISO 50001, with the objective of future engineers.
Our relationships certifying all major manufacturing locations by 2020. are conducted with open and Continue drive to improve energy efficiency, reduce our greenhouse gas intensity honest communication.
and reduce waste to landfill.
In 2016, our energy efficiency improved by production demands.
This system allows 4% to 449kWh per 000 sales 2015: us to monitor 80% of our electricity 470kWh, helped by the full year impact of consumption.
4% Fokker, which has a relatively low energy ISO 14001 is our mandated environmental intensity.
We progressed our energy management system and the great majority improvement in energy efficiency efficiency programme using real-time data of our manufacturing sites are certified.
to 449kWh per 000 sales from the energy management system to 2015: 470kWh per 000 sales A small number are working towards optimise the programming of building certification.
We will also certify all major management systems and compressed air manufacturing locations to ISO 50001, the systems, and to flex energy use in line with Energy Management System standard.
Greenhouse gas emissions methodology GKN calculates greenhouse gas emissions Our Scope 1 estimates include emissions Scope 2 emissions are those from electricity using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and from fuel used on premises, transport and heat purchased by GKN.
For 2016, refers to the greenhouse gas intensity of emissions from owned or controlled vehicles, these emissions, and total greenhouse the Group i. e. operations included in the losses of refrigerant, and process and gas emissions, are calculated using both 2 3 consolidated financial statements.
Location and Market based methods.
-4% -12% 3% -6% Total greenhouse Total emissions per Scope 1: Scope 2: gas emissions million sales combustion of fuel electricity and heat 1 1 1 1 tonnes CO equivalent tonnes CO equivalent tonnes CO equivalent tonnes CO equivalent 2 2 2 2 2 2 1,292,000 1,005,000 3 3 1,210,000 163 281,000 922,000 1 1 1,340,000 186 274,000 1,068,000 1 Greenhouse gas figures include emissions related to the Fokker business.
Environmental Energy consumption CO emissions per Water consumption Waste generation per 2 Recycled per unit of production unit of production per unit of production unit of production performance waste kWh tonne kg tonne m3 tonne kg tonne % of total waste GKN Aerospace GKN Aerospace GKN Aerospace GKN Aerospace GKN Aerospace 243 79 0.54 7.2 69 253 90 0.63 9.1 73 GKN Driveline GKN Driveline GKN Driveline GKN Driveline GKN Driveline 1,208 461 1.26 147 94 1,238 468 1.23 153 95 GKN Powder Metallurgy GKN Powder Metallurgy GKN Powder Metallurgy GKN Powder Metallurgy GKN Powder Metallurgy 2,459 910 2.24 90 92 2016 2,477 910 2.09 94 91 GKN Land Systems GKN Land Systems GKN Land Systems GKN Land Systems GKN Land Systems 2015 1,221 364 4.96 230 97 GKN Aerospace performance 1,105 330 4.38 207 97 expressed per 000 sales When environmental data is expressed on the basis of sales, it is calculated at constant currency in order to facilitate direct year-on-year comparison.
58 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Supporting local communities Open and honest communication 2016 performance 1 million invested in 290 projects aimed at supporting young people as part of our global Hearts of Gold community scheme.
2016 performance Many other local community events held around the world.
Increased publication of information A livestream of UK Formula Student provided support for young engineers competing in the event.
and news, and enhanced social media presence.
Continued participation in See Inside GKN where school children visit GKN locations and launch of Take Your Daughters Sons to Work initiative to promote Launch of a new corporate website.
STEM education for young people around the world.
Outstanding community involvement recognised through our annual Hearts of 2017 priorities Gold awards.
Maintain the flow of news and information about GKN and ensure 2017 priorities it reaches internal and external audiences.
Maintain the success of See Inside GKN in the UK, and expand the initiative to China, Sweden and the US.
Expand understanding of key Group-wide technologies, such as Launch a Sustainability Newsletter.
Continue to promote other local Hearts of Gold activities.
Most GKN sites are actively involved in a huge children and young adults to study science We aim to help our shareholders and external variety of different projects, supporting their and maths and consider a career in audiences understand our business through local communities, donating time to good engineering through work experience and honest communication which is easy to causes and raising money for charitable apprenticeships: and sponsoring education, access and understand.
In 2016, we launched projects around the world.
Sometimes these technology institutions and events.
In 2016, a new corporate website and continued to are corporate initiatives, but in many cases GKN hosted 69 school visits via our See promote community support online.
We projects and initiatives are instigated by Inside GKN initiative, in which 5,000 children continued to use social media channels to employees.
GKN calls this outstanding from over 20 countries visited our facilities.
reach and interact with a wider audience, and community involvement Hearts of Gold, and launched the GKN plc Facebook page.
In total during the year, GKN invested over awards are given out every year to employees 1 milllion in 290 significant projects aimed to celebrate the most inspiring examples, and at supporting young people.
These projects to encourage others to follow their lead.
touched the lives of almost 60,000 young Support for young people is central to our people in 30 countries.
This includes inspiring FORMULA STUDENT Formula Student is the worlds largest student motorsport competition, challenging engineering students from across the globe to design, build and race their own Formula One-style racing car.
GKN is an official partner of the UK event which is aimed at supporting the next generation of young engineers.
In 2016, we broadcast live from across the four full days of Formula Student UK and a digital campaign reached over 1.5 million people via social media, with 35,000 viewers watching 342 days worth of video.
GKN also offered free sideshafts and connectors to 60 teams across the world for use on their racing cars.
com formulastudent GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59
