40 GSK Annual Report 2016 Responsible business Being a responsible business is central to our strategy, how we deliver success is as important as the results we achieve.
41 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information We have expanded our graduated approach to ling and enforcing patents and intellectual property to widen access to medicines in the poorest countries.
Health for all Our people Our planet Our behaviour 1.3m 75 countries 18% 99% Our partnership with Our Partnership for We have cut operational Our mandatory annual Save the Children reached Prevention programme carbon emissions Scope training on our code of an additional 1.3 million is being rolled out 1 and 2 by 18% since conduct was completed children in 2016 with globally and is offering 2010.
Total value chain by 99% of our employees treatments, immunisations unprecedented access to emissions have risen by and complementary a and other interventions.
preventive healthcare for 1% as we extend access workers in 2016. almost 100,000 employees to our medicines, and we and their family members are working to address this.
Footnote a The remaining 1% represents employees who did not complete the training in the required timeframe and are subject to disciplinary action see page 47 and employees still within the completion timeframe e. g. new starters 42 GSK Annual Report 2016 Responsible business Creating value for society Our responsible business priorities By being commercially By developing innovative healthcare GSKs responsible business priorities sit successful and operating products, we directly benefit patients and within the context of the macro-economic consumers.
Our equitable pricing strategy, and social trends that affect all companies responsibly, we will improve which allows prices to reect a countrys and wider society.
These trends present ability to pay, and global footprint enables both opportunities and challenges for global peoples health and benefit greater access to our medicines, vaccines healthcare companies like GSK see page 8. society, as well as create and consumer healthcare products.
We report our progress across four areas: By delivering profitable and sustainable value for our shareholders.
Health for all, Our behaviour, Our people, business performance, we generate value and Our planet.
We identied our priorities and returns for our shareholders and can in these areas by understanding the issues reinvest in the business.
Over and above that are most important to our business and this, wider society benets as healthy to our stakeholders.
people are essential to building strong Our longer-term commitments across the and sustainable communities.
four areas reect global health needs and We make significant direct and indirect align with GSKs strategic priorities and economic contributions to the countries our values.
We detail our progress against and communities where we operate through these commitments in our responsible tax, our employment of 99,300 people business supplement available at and charitable support.
A graduated approach to intellectual property We have expanded our approach to ling and enforcing patents to reect a countrys economic maturity.
In 2016, we announced that we would adapt The agreement enables dolutegravir to be our current approach to ling and enforcing made available for adults through generic patents to ensure that we balance the need manufacturers, with royalty fees tiered to protect our intellectual property with a depending on national gross domestic countrys economic maturity.
product, following approval from regulators.
This means that 94% of people living with This means that we will no longer le patents HIV in the developing world are now for medicines in the least-developed countries covered by the licence agreement.
In lower middle We have also outlined our intent to commit income countries, we will apply for patents when we think it appropriate but also offer our future portfolio of cancer treatments to patent pooling and will work with the licences that allow supplies of generic versions of our medicines to these countries Medicines Patent Pool to explore how this can help address the increasing burden of other than G20 countries for ten years.
In line with this approach, in 2016 ViiV Healthcare expanded its licence agreement with the Medicines Patent Pool for the adult formulation of their HIV drug dolutegravir to include the vast majority of lower middle income countries.
43 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information We have well-established, long-term It also cites our company-wide ownership for Measuring responsible commitments which sit across access as a key strength, together with our four areas: Health for all, Our behaviour, commitment to research and development Our people and Our planet.
We also for low and middle income countries and progress measure our performance in the Access high-priority medical needs.
to Medicine Index and Dow Jones At the beginning of 2017 we also performed Sustainability Index.
well in the first ever Access to Vaccines Index, leading in all three categories under Access to Medicine Index consideration.
In 2016, GSK topped the Access to Medicine Index for the fifth consecutive time.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index This means we have led every edition of the In 2016, we came third in our sector in the biannual index since its 2008 launch.
The Index The Access to Medicine Index is funded by analyses the economic, environmental and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the social performance of the worlds leading UK and Dutch governments.
Our overall percentile ranking top 20 pharmaceutical companies efforts to increased from 89th in 2015 to 95th in improve access to healthcare in developing 2016, meaning we scored within the top countries.
We led our peers in three of the 5% of our sector.
2016 indexs seven categories: research We led the industry in code of business and development: pricing, manufacturing conduct, climate strategy, environmental and distribution: and product donations.
reporting and health outcome contributions, The index describes GSK as the most and had strong performance in corporate access-oriented company and recognises governance, marketing practices, risk and our clear strategy on increasing access crisis management, tax and corporate to medicines, which is aligned with our citizenship.
Progress against our responsible business commitments Our 2016 assessment shows that three of our commitments are complete, 14 are progressing well, five are on track, and one has more work to do.
For more details about our performance, see our Responsible Business Supplement at www.
Health for all Our behaviour Progress Progress Innovation for unmet medical needs Completed Ethical conduct Progressing well Progressing well Progressing well Better access to medicines and vaccines Promoting values in sales and marketing practices Progressing well Building products to better meet needs Completed Transparency in clinical trial data Progressing well Strengthening healthcare infrastructure Progressing well Rigorous patient and consumer safety Progressing well Fighting malaria On track Minimising animal testing Progressing well Eliminating and controlling neglected Progressing well tropical diseases Ensuring ethical interactions Progressing well On track Eradicating polio Promoting human rights Access to antiretroviral treatment for HIV Progressing well Working with third parties On track Progressing well Reducing child mortality Our people Our planet Progress Progress Progressing well Work needed Developing our people in inspiring Aiming to be carbon neutral and healthy workplaces Progressing well Reducing our water impact Promoting inclusion and diversity On track On track Reducing our waste Completed Community volunteering to create change 44 GSK Annual Report 2016 Responsible business continued Our approach In 2016, our gel to help prevent umbilical We are tackling some of the greatest cord infections in newborns received a Health for all global health challenges by innovating to positive scientific opinion from the European meet unmet needs, making our medicines Medicines Agency EMA.
Three million We are committed to and vaccines more accessible, and babies die each year from infection, often strengthening healthcare systems.
when the newly-cut umbilical cord attracts developing innovative bacteria a particular issue in developing Innovating for unmet needs products and extending countries.
If approved by local regulators, we We aim to develop innovative products access to healthcare to will make the gel available at a not-for-profit for diseases that disproportionately affect price and share manufacturing knowledge more people, no matter the worlds poorest people and where so it can be widely made.
where they live or their Our Mosquirix vaccine targets a significant In 2016, we committed to working with ability to pay.
Phase III trials of the governments, multinational organisations vaccine, which received a positive opinion and NGOs to enhance preparedness from the EMA in 2015, have shown the against potential future outbreaks of vaccine could have a considerable public diseases such as Ebola and Zika.
We health impact when used in combination are supporting the Coalition for Epidemic with malaria control measures.
Preparedness Innovation CEPI see case study on page 33 and are proposing In 2016, the World Health Organization to create a permanent biopreparedness confirmed that full funding has been organisation BPO at our Rockville, committed to enable the pilot implementation Maryland Vaccines site.
of Mosquirix in three settings in sub-Saharan Africa due to begin in early 2018.
Protecting refugees with essential vaccines We are supplying essential vaccines at our lowest price to civil society organisations for use in acute humanitarian situations.
Along with their homes, livelihoods and Our commitment is designed to help communities, refugees often lose easy access maintain stable vaccination programmes to healthcare, leaving them potentially during times of great humanitarian need vulnerable to vaccine-preventable disease.
where governments are unable to assist, by developing a reliable and predictable In response, GSK has committed to supply supply to CSOs that have stepped in.
essential vaccines to internationally recognised At the same time, we will continue to work civil society organisations CSOs such with partners to strengthen the long-term as Mdecins Sans Frontires and Save the Photo: Nour Wahid Save the Children capacity of local health systems to support Children at our lowest prices, for use in refugees and host communities.
acute humanitarian situations where governments are unable to assist.
This pledge comes as tens of thousands of refugees continue to ee conict in The first vaccine to be covered by this Syria, South Sudan and elsewhere.
commitment is Synorix, our pneumococcal It builds on decades of effort by GSK, vaccine that protects children against diseases working with partners, to increase such as pneumonia.
Working with partners access to our vaccines through charities such as Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, we will responding to emergencies.
provide Synorix at a deeply discounted price to charities that fund and deliver immunisation programmes to refugees and displaced people.
In the future, we will explore extending this offer to other essential vaccines.
45 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information We also share our expertise, resources We also understand payer and patient and intellectual property with external concerns about affordability in developed researchers.
Our open innovation lab in markets and we are leading efforts to 21m Tres Cantos, Spain, has built up a portfolio develop sustainable solutions.
For example, of 63research projects looking at diseases in the USA, the last six GSK pharmaceutical Since 2009, we have invested 21million of the developing world since 2010.
It had products were launched similar to or in 39 countries and trained 43,000 20visiting scientists in 2016 and results below prices to the medicines we aim to frontline health workers who have from the lab have led to papers in more supersede.
In 2016, we integrated three reached 17.5 million people than 50 scientific publications.
Our Africa of our US patient assistance programmes Non-Communicable Diseases Open Lab into one GSK Patient Assistance Program, is currently focusing on cardiovascular which is designed to simplify and improve disease, oncology, chronic respiratory the programme experience for eligible disease, chronic kidney disease and uninsured patients and patients with a diabetes.
Its first project looks at severe Medicare Part D prescription Drug Plan.
asthma across East Africa, led by Ugandas In Europe, we continue to engage with Makerere University.
payers in all EU markets to balance affordable Extending affordability and availability cost to healthcare systems through funding We are committed to widening access to solutions which also support ongoing Our charitable giving in 2016 totalled our medicines and vaccines.
Our equitable innovation for medicines.
We have achieved 210.2 million 2015 208.3 million pricing strategy is based on the country, reimbursement for our Ellipta portfolio in disease area, product type, and patients most EU markets by nding local solutions ability to pay.
when issues of affordability challenged the introduction of new innovation.
Since 2010, we have capped the prices of our patented medicines and vaccines Strengthening healthcare systems in the least-developed countries LDCs We reinvest 20% of our profits from the at 25% of the prices in the EU5 France, sales of our Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK, as long Healthcare products in LDCs to strengthen healthcare infrastructure in these nations.
as our manufacturing costs are covered.
Since 2009, working with Amref Health We offer our lowest vaccine prices to Africa, CARE International and Save the organisations such as Gavi, the Vaccine Product & in-kind 127.2m Children, we have invested 21 million Cash 67.3m Alliance, which supports countries with in 39 countries, reached 17.5 million people Management 12.3m a low gross national income.
In 2016, we Time PULSE 3.4m and trained 43,000 frontline health workers.
delivered more than 74 million doses of our Synorix vaccine against pneumoccal Through our pioneering partnership with disease and more than 35 million doses Save the Children, we reached 1.3 million of Rotarix, our vaccine against rotavirus children with live-saving interventions gastroenteritis.
in 2016, bringing the total number to 2.6million.
Since 2013, over one million In middle-income countries, where many children have been screened for malnutrition, still live in poverty, our equitable pricing more than 86,500 under-ves have been approach enables more people to access immunised, over 290,000 children have our products.
In Egypt, we offer a portfolio been vaccinated against measles or polio, of prices to meet the needs of all levels and over 183,000 have been treated for of income, including a price reduction diarrhoea, malaria or pneumonia.
of Seretide inhaler devices targeted to middle and lower income groups.
46 GSK Annual Report 2016 Responsible business continued Our approach Working with third parties We aim to have a values-based culture by We expect our suppliers to share our high Our behaviour training our people on the standards we ethical standards.
In 2016, we increased expect, encouraging the reporting of any our use of preferred suppliers, bringing Our values underpin concerns and embedding our values into them to more than 90% of our global the way we measure employee performance.
We continued the everything we do from roll-out of our global third-party oversight Patient and consumer safety ensuring rigorous safety programme, which reached a total of We manufacture our medicines and vaccines standards to how we 43 countries across Latin America and according to current Good Manufacturing South East Asia.
The programme aims interact with healthcare Practice regulations and our internal Quality to drive improvements in our supply chain Management System.
and distributor network and ensure that In 2016, we had 167 regulatory inspections the third parties we engage with support of our manufacturing sites and 86% of our values.
these received no observations or minor In 2016, we also completed over 70 thirda observations.
Eleven of the inspections party audits on health and safety, ethics, were conducted by the US Food and environment and labour rights.
We also GSK values Drug Administration FDA, of which five conducted a further 1,850 audits focused resulted in a Form 483 being issued to specically on quality processes.
Where sites, citing deficiencies to current Good we identify areas for improvement, we Manufacturing Practices cGMP.
None engage with the respective third parties to of these observations had any direct impact develop improvement plans and track their on product supply from our sites, and completion with the overall aim of enhancing corrective action plans to mitigate the performance in the supply chain.
We may observations have been submitted to also suspend or terminate work with a the FDA in all cases.
third-party if significant issues are identied.
Transparency in clinical trial data Training our people GSK was the first company to sign up to In 2016, we updated our Code of Conduct AllTrials, which campaigns for every clinical and accompanying annual training to give trial to be registered and its results reported.
people a deeper understanding of how to We have been leading the industry in clinical apply our values in their everyday activities.
study transparency over the past decade.
b In 2016, we publicly posted more than In 2016, 99% of our employees and We expect all employees to act in line 1,900 clinical study reports and more than complementary workers completed with our values.
mandatory training on the code.
The code of conduct training enables the learner Researchers can submit proposals to to understand and manage the risks request access to the details of around associated with our business activities.
2,000 of our clinical trials through the This includes anti-bribery and corruption www.
risk, to which we maintain a zero tolerance An independent panel reviews proposals approach.
More than 70,000 people working for scientific merit and to ensure patient in high risk roles completed additional privacy and condentiality are protected.
in-depth anti-bribery and corruption training In 2016, 88 proposals were approved and to help them understand how to manage 66 research teams were granted access particular challenges they may face in their to anonymised patient-level data.
We have also begun providing plain Reporting and investigating concerns language summaries of our clinical studies We centrally track misconduct allegations on our online clinical study register.
and concerns through our multiple Speak Up channels.
In 2016, our investigations team received 2,568 reports, a 21% reduction since 2015.
Footnotes a At this time we are still awaiting 11 reports from 2016 inspections.
b The remaining 1% represents employees who did not complete the training in the required time and are subject to disciplinary action, as well as those who are still within the completion timeframe e. g. new starters.
47 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Disciplinary action and safety and ensuring these are Employees disciplined in 2016: We take action when employees fail to act communicated consistently through our breakdown of types of policy violation in line with our policies.
During the year, revised third-party contracts.
We monitor 2% 3,600 employees were disciplined for policy existing suppliers and screen new ones.
2% 2% 8% violations 2015 3,574, including 499 Our approach to tax 3% employees for failing to complete mandatory We understand our responsibility to pay training Code of Conduct and Anti-bribery 5% an appropriate amount of tax and we fully and Corruption within the required 44% support efforts to ensure companies are 8% timeframe.
Of the total disciplined, 2,499 transparent about how they manage their employees received a documented warning 12% tax affairs.
2015 2,890, 547 had verbal warnings 14% We pay a significant amount of tax in the UK, 2015 297 and 221 were dismissed or where most of our global corporate functions agreed to leave the company voluntarily and significant manufacturing and R&D 2015 387.
Most of these were related Attendance and Marketing and facilities are located, and in other countries to attendance and payroll which included payroll promotional activities around the world where we have a substantial disciplinary actions related to employee Training completion Code of conduct business and employment presence.
Good manufacturing falsification of absence, punctuality or misstating hours and distribution documents worked.
Over the past 16 years, we have paid practices Travel and expense 28.9 billion in corporation tax globally.
Human rights Local work regulations Environment, health violations Of this, 2.8 billion, nearly 10% of the GSK is a signatory to the UN Global and safety global total, was paid in the UK.
Read Compact, which sets out key principles Other more on page 178. for business on human rights.
We are committed to upholding the Universal We do not engage in articial tax Declaration of Human Rights and the arrangements those without business International Labour Organisations core or commercial substance.
At the same labour standards.
time, we have a responsibility to our shareholders to be nancially efficient We focus on those areas where our and deliver a sustainable tax rate.
operations have the biggest potential impact on human rights.
We manage human rights Further details on our approach to tax and risks in the supply chain by reinforcing our our tax disclosures can be found on page 55. requirements on labour rights and health Putting patients interests first We continue to lead the industry in modernising the way we market and sell our medicines.
Since January 2016, we stopped paying We have also changed the way GSK healthcare professionals HCPs to speak sales teams are compensated.
Since to other prescribers about our medicines January 2015, our pharmaceutical medical and vaccines.
Instead, we have strengthened sales representatives are no longer our online resources to supplement information compensated for individual sales targets.
Instead they are rewarded on their technical skills, scientific knowledge, We have also signicantly expanded our quality of service, and broader business global team of in-house medical experts to performance.
provide information about our medicines and Our new approach is being well received: vaccines to HCPs in ways that are convenient to them.
We now have around 400 medical following medical product information sessions with GSK experts in over 60 experts dedicated exclusively to supporting HCPs, and a further 900 who also engage countries, 92% of more than 42,000 HCPs agreed the interaction helped them with them as part of their roles.
make a more informed decision, benefiting Where we do pay HCPs for activities such patient care.
Around 79% rated their as clinical or market research that help us experience as superior to similar develop medicines and vaccines to meet interactions with other pharmaceutical patients needs we are transparent about companies.
We have also seen an these transactions.
We now disclose all improvement in customer trust.
In a payments made to HCPs in 32 markets survey of US HCPs in 2016, GSK ranked across Europe including Russia and Ukraine, first for customer trust for the fourth year Australia, Japan and the US.
in a row, and for customer value for the third time.
48 GSK Annual Report 2016 Responsible business continued Our approach We put particular emphasis on leadership We need a talented and motivated workforce development.
In 2016, we trained around Our people to deliver against our strategy.
To achieve 3,500 people to support their promotion to this, we strive to attract the best people first and second line leader roles: continued We aim to create a safe and to create an environment that empowers to evolve our global leadership development and inspires.
Our people strategy focuses programmes: and have found that managers and inclusive environment on talent, leadership, performance and who complete them show significant where everyone can reach engagement.
improvement in effectiveness based on their full potential.
Talent and leadership We also trained 245 leaders as coaches, Our talent and leadership programmes with our strategic use of coaching being focus on developing our employees at all recognised as world-class by the levels with the skills they need to advance International Coach Federations Prism their careers.
In 2016, we welcomed 465 graduates and postgraduates onto our Future Leaders Performance and engagement and Esprit programmes, including 164 Our global performance system centres from emerging markets.
GSK was voted on a set of clear expectations that top graduate employer for Research and emphasises not just the results people Development in The Times Top 100 achieve, but the way they achieve them Graduate Employers 2016 for the 19th in line with our values.
successive year and ranked 13th overall.
Listening to our people is essential for employee engagement.
During the year, we responded to the insights from our 2015 global employee survey, which 78% of employees completed.
Members of our CET hosted five listening sessions with over 200 senior leaders.
They then conducted discussions on the topics raised, including how we evaluate performance.
Future Leaders programme Building the next generation of leaders.
The programme is rated highly by Our Future Leaders programme is delivering the fresh ideas and talent needed to continue participants.
A recent survey of alumni from the Future Leaders programme found driving our success across key markets.
that 89% of respondents felt the rotations It provides graduates with a breadth of helped them to develop relevant skills and potential career pathways from R&D and experience for their career at GSK.
finance, to marketing and procurement with the option to move between functions The benets to the business are also clear.
The number and geographical spread of the intake means we have home-grown Such job rotations make up 70% of the leaders rooted in all our markets, including programme, with feedback, mentoring and emerging countries.
In 2016, we had 441 coaching constituting a further 20%, and new recruits representing 59 nationalities formal training the remainder.
This balance from 58 countries up from 130 from enables graduates to develop the specic eight nations in 2012. skills to be effective in their individual role 441 and business, while getting a broad grasp graduates joined our Future Leaders of the company and learning GSKs programme in 2016 distinctive global leadership approach.
49 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Women in management % To monitor progress, we have also Employee volunteering introduced pulse surveys to evaluate In 2016, 73 GSK employees from 2014 2015 2016 the impact of engagement efforts at more 25 countries contributed 3.4 million SVP VP 29 29 30 regular intervals than our annual survey.
worth of skilled services to 31 non-profit Director 40 40 42 partners in 27 countries, through our Promoting inclusion and diversity PULSE Volunteer Partnership.
They Manager 45 45 46 The diverse perspectives and experiences worked on assignments aligned to Total 42 42 43 of our global workforce strengthen our worldwide healthcare challenges and business and help us meet the needs the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
of our patients and consumers.
Employees by gender number Health and wellbeing The percentage of women in management Male Female Total As a healthcare company we think hard rose to 43% in 2016, and women Board 9 4 13 about how we can best support not only represented 15% of our Corporate Executive the health of our patients and consumers Management 9,537 7,337 16,874 Team CET and 31% of our Board this but also our employees.
Through our global Total 56,104 43,196 99,300 compares with an average of 26% among energy and resilience training programmes FTSE100 boards, according to the Craneld Management: senior managers as dened in the and our innovative and ambitious Partnership Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Board report.
for Prevention programme P4P, we have Report Regulations 2013 which includes persons In 2016, more than 200 women began responsible for planning, directing or controlling the created strong foundations.
activities of the company, or a strategically significant part our Accelerating Difference programme, of the company, other than the Board, including directors Through P4P we now offer almost which helps female leaders progress to or undertakings included in the consolidated accounts.
100,000 employees and family members senior roles.
The programme was in 75 countries unprecedented access recognised as best practice in Craneld to preventive healthcare services, such Universitys The Female FTSE Board as immunisations and cancer screening, Report 2016. at little or no extra cost.
In 2016 we extended We are a global organisation and we want these services to India, Russia and the 73 our leaders to represent the varied markets Commonwealth of Independent States, we serve.
Five nationalities are currently GSK employees from 25 countries keeping us on track to achieve our goal represented on the CET and the Board.
spent up to six months with 31 non-profit of global coverage by 2018. organisations to share their skills.
As part of our efforts to promote an Protecting our people environment where everyone feels included, We want to prevent incidents before in 2016, we established a Lesbian, Gay, they occur: however, as a global business Bisexual and Transgender LGBT Council.
operating in more than 150 markets, The Council is chaired by our President of injuries do occur.
Pharmaceuticals R&D, endorsed by the CET, In 2016, we had a reportable injury and and aims to engage and educate employees illness rate of 0.26 per 100,000 hours on LGBT issues.
We achieved a 100% worked which, according to Pharmaceutical score in the Human Rights Campaign Safety Group PSG data, is comparable Foundations Corporate Equality Index to other leading companies in our sector.
which rates workplaces on LGBT equality Sadly, we had one fatality in 2016, a sales in the US.
representative died as a result of a road Making GSK a more accessible place to trafc incident in India.
To try to prevent work for people with disabilities is a priority road incidents we have driver safety for us.
We are working with the Global programmes in India, Indonesia and Vietnam, Disability Council to develop an online with 4,000 people taking part in 2016. accessibility portal which allows employees to nd information on support or adjustments to their working environments.
We are committed to removing barriers, increasing understanding and ensuring that those with disabilities have the same opportunities.
50 GSK Annual Report 2016 Responsible business continued Our approach Our supply chain represents the largest We aim to reduce our environmental impacts part of our value chain footprint 51% Our planet across our value chain while extending followed by the use of our products 30%.
access to our products, by minimising Our own operations, logistics and end of We aim to reduce our our carbon footprint, water use and life disposal make up the remaining 19%.
environmental impacts As our largest value chain impact, we focus Carbon on helping our suppliers make environmental across our value chain In 2016, our operational emissions Scope improvements.
For example, 188 suppliers while extending access 1 and 2 totalled 1.6 million tonnes of CO e: covering 1 billion of our spend on direct 2 to our products.
this is broadly the same as the previous year raw materials disclose information through and represents an 18% decrease against Ecodesk, an online platform to monitor and promote environmental improvements in our 2010 baseline.
We reduced our our supply chain.
In addition, more than emissions through a continued focus on 350 suppliers use our online sustainability energy efficiency, renewable energy and collaboration platform, the GSK Supplier investment in sustainable buildings.
Exchange, to share best practice.
In 2016, we revised our calculation method for our Scope 3 emissions with the current Certain products have a disproportionate GHG protocol methodology which now effect on our value chain emissions, includes the impact of purchased services, particularly our Ventolin propellant-based capital investments, fuel and energy related inhalers, which emit greenhouse gases activities, logistics upstream in the supply during use.
We continue to research chain, and all business travel and commuting.
solutions to this issue, including changing Based on this latest methodology, we the way we manufacture, to reduce the increased our 2010 baseline gure to amount of propellant used, while maintaining 18.7 million tonnes of CO e from 15 million efcacy for patients.
2 tonnes of CO e. 2 a In 2015, our overall carbon footprint Scope 1, 2 and 3 increased from 17.8million tonnes CO e in 2014 to 2 20.3 million tonnes of CO e due to the 2 Novartis integration.
This represents an 8.5% increase to our overall footprint versus our 2010 baseline.
Excluding Novartis, our footprint has remained at from 2010-2015 despite the volume of medicines, vaccines and consumer Footnote healthcare products shipped from our a Our most recently available Scope 3 data is factories having increased by approximately from 2015.
We will publish 2016 data online 40% over the same period.
Carbon emissions plus intensity ratios as per regulations a b Tonnes CO e 2013 2014 2015 2016 2 Scope 1 emissions 1,040,928 851,113 885,155 893,418 Scope 2 emissions 788,149 744,973 730,168 716,448 Data available Scope 3 emissions 16,630,521 16,093,060 18,690,183 May 2017 Intensity ratios 2013 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 and 2 emissions sales revenue tonnes CO e m 69.0 69.4 67.5 57.7 2 Scope 1 and 2 FTE tonnes CO e FTE 18.4 16.3 16.0 16.2 2 a Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition.
b Data includes former Novartis sites emissions and headcount.
51 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Water An innovative project in Rajasthan, an arid Our new Water Stewardship Policy region of India, is now replenishing the water reinforces our commitment to reduce source for the village of Sawaipura with 70% GSKs water impact across the value chain.
around a quarter of the amount of water that We continue to look for ways to use water our three Horlicks factories located across of our sites have successfully more efficiently and reduce consumption.
India use in their operations.
Together with achieved zero waste to landll by 3 We used 14.5 million m of water across Alternative Development Initiatives, an Indian re-purposing materials that would our operations in 2016, a 23% reduction NGO, we are also supporting communities otherwise go to waste, or by using on 2010 and 3% less than 2015. around the Horlicks supply chain to improve waste-to-energy services.
water management and agricultural yields.
The amount we use is just one aspect of our overall water impact across our value Waste chain, which includes factors such as local We aim to reduce our operational waste by 50% by 2020, compared with 2010. water scarcity and quality, and health, social, In 2016, our operations produced 137 regulatory and reputational risks.
thousand tonnes of waste 4% less than We focus our efforts on a small number the previous year and 23% below our 2010 of high-impact GSK sites in water-scarce baseline.
The majority 73% was recycled regions, and on the agricultural supply chain or incinerated to recover energy, with only for our Horlicks products, which makes up 5% sent to landll.
Around 70% of our sites the biggest portion of our total value chain have now achieved zero waste to landll water footprint.
by repurposing materials that would otherwise go to waste, or by using waste-to-energy services.
GSK recognised by CDP as leaders in climate change and water GSK included in prestigious CDP A list for climate and water Our efforts to reduce carbon emissions This has included reducing emissions were acknowledged with inclusion in the during the manufacture of inhalers and CDP Climate A List.
CDP assessed launching our Complete the Cycle companies globally from across ten industry scheme, the first of its kind to work with sectors, we were one of only 193 companies pharmacists and patients to recover and 9% of applicants and seven healthcare recycle inhalers.
Such steps have helped companies to be A-listed.
us to reduce our operational emissions by 18% since 2010.
Our high rating reects the significant steps we have taken to help meet our goal of We were also one of only 24 3% of becoming carbon neutral by 2050, while applicants companies, and the only continuing to grow our business and meet healthcare company to be included in the healthcare needs of more people.
This success reects our achievements in reducing water usage by 23% since 2010 and our commitment to water stewardship.
