Strategic report Sustainable development Our activities and our presence deliver lasting benefits to our stakeholders and to society, creating value both locally and globally.
The commodities that we produce and market have an essential role ineveryday life and support the development of emerging economies.
Working with the communities living around our operations, we support socio-economic development through our investment in infrastructure, procurement, health and education projects.
Our approach to sustainability is embodied by Glencore We publish an annual sustainability report, in accordance Corporate Practice GCP.
This consists of three tiers, our with the core requirements of Global Reporting Initiative values, our Code of Conduct and our Group HSEC policies.
This report covers in considerable detail our GCP is supported at asset level by operational policies, approach, our performance and basis of preparation across developed for the specific needs of individual assets, with all key sustainability topics.
Our sustainability reports are compliance determined by performance monitoring available on our website: www.
GCP provides a framework for the integration of our sustainability principles, guidance and policies throughout our business.
GCP gives clear guidance on the standards we expect all our operations to achieve.
Through the reporting function within GCP, our Board receives regular updates and has detailed oversight of how our business is performing across all our internally defined  key areas.
20 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Sustainable development framework Our values reflect our purpose, our priorities and the fundamental beliefs by which we conduct ourselves.
They define Values what it means to work at Glencore, Safety regardless of location or role.
Entrepreneurialism Simplicity Responsibility Openness Our Code of Conduct defines the essential requirements of our values and sets out the standards we require our people to meet Code of Conduct and fully understand.
Departments and assets decide the best way to convey the Code locally, including specialised training.
Group HSEC policies Detail our management processes and procedures 1.
Health and safety Our Group HSEC policies detail 2.
Emergency response and crisis management our management processes and 3.
Catastrophic and fatal hazards management procedures, which are integrated 4.
Environmental management into corporate decision-making 5.
Communities and stakeholder engagement processes.
HSEC risk management framework GCP is supported at the operational Operational policies level by individual policies pertaining Group HSEC policies are implemented and adapted locally to local risks.
We monitor our performance using a Performance and alignment Group GCP database Data reporting, risk management and assurance by HSEC teams at Group, and via afull assurance process at both Group departmental and asset level tracks our performance and alignment with policies and asset level.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 21 Strategic report Sustainable development Our sustainability strategy sets Safety: out our ambitions against four Become a leader in workplace safety, eliminating fatalities and injuries core pillars: health: safety: Health: environment: and community Become a leader in the protection and and human rights.
In addition, improvement of our peoples and communities wellbeing wehave identified our people: workforce as a focus area.
Environment: Minimise any negative environmental impact from our operations and apply the precautionary principle in decision-making Topic 2016 priorities Progress Continue to implement SafeWork, build a strong culture 16 fatalities took place at Glencore assets during 2016.
All loss of life is Safety of safety and eliminate fatalities across the Group unacceptable and we are determined to eliminate fatalities across our Group SafeWork implemented Group-wide: ongoing efforts to bring about a universally robust safety culture at all our assets Progress our targeted 50% reduction of lost time injury Our TRIFR improved by 7%, our LTIFR increased by 4% frequency rate LTIFR and total recordable injury frequency rate TRIFR by 2020, based on our 2015 and 2014 baselines respectively Roll out the revised health strategy and supporting Revised health strategy and supporting materials rolled out Group-wide: Health materials to assets during 2016 underpinning the development and implementation of leading health and safety practices at all of our assets Undertake a feasibility study to develop a meaningful Climate change considerations incorporated into the annual budget process to Environment target for carbon, continue to develop our position in the improve understanding of our expected footprint, supporting the development of debate on climate change and the role of fossil fuels in realistic reduction goals to further decrease our Group GHG footprint the future global energy mix Implement the water management framework across the Strategic water management framework rolled out and an approach for Group and assess operations that have been identified as identifying potential high water-related risk sites established being high-risk sites related to water Continue to strengthen relationships with our Community Leadership Programme toolkit developed: a toolkit of training Community communities and other stakeholders to maintain our materials for our community relations teams and management at assets, and human licence to operate drawnfrom internal and external expertise rights Develop a strategic framework to enhance our Utilising our socio-economic contribution scorecard to examine the key value contribution to socio-economic development and roll flows that our assets create for four principal stakeholder groups: employees: out associated metrics to all operations suppliers and contractors: local communities: and government Continue to support and foster development of talented Ensuring appropriate succession planning and retention strategies are in place Our people people regardless of age, gender or race through local that reflect both the local working environment skill requirements and employment, internships, scholarships or training longer-term development and retention of talent for Glencore globally Non-financial indicators includes the information and data from our industrial activities, including only assets where we have operational control, and excluding investment, marketing and holding companies.
The community investments spend and headcount information also includes our marketing activities 22 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Within our strategy we have clearly defined imperatives, Community and human rights: objectives, priority areas and targets.
Our Departments Foster sustainable growth and respect and assets align their annual HSEC plans to the corporate human rights wherever we operate sustainability strategy.
The sustainability strategy is reviewed each year, which includes consultation with our Department SD Leads to Our people: ensure it continues to fulfil the needs of our business.
Employ workforces that reflect the demographics of the communities in which we operate 1 1 Key Performance indicator 2016 2015 2014 Our priorities going forward Fatalities at managed operations We are committed to eliminating fatalities 16 10 16 throughout our assets Lost time injury frequency rate 50% reduction of Group LTIFR by the end of 1.40 1.34 1.60 2020, against 2015 figure of 1.34 per million hours worked 50% reduction in TRIFR by 2020 using 2014 Total recordable injury frequency rate per million 4.05 4.35 5.02 figures as baseline 2 hours worked New occupational disease cases A year-on-year reduction in the number of new 89 127 259 cases of occupational disease CO2e Scope 1 million tonnes Continue to enhance our reporting on our 22.9 23.0 21.8 progress in fulfilling our climate change commitments 3 CO Scope 2 location-based million tonnes 2 12.7 14.8 14.7 Report on progress in developing carbon targets across coal & ferroalloys 3 Water withdrawn million m Assets identified with high-risk water issues 970 954 996 toimplement five-year water targets 20172021 Maintain internal and external audits associated Total energy use petajoules 222 236 236 with our high risk tailings dams Community investment spend $ million Distribute the Community Leadership 84 94 114 Programme toolkit to all assets, for customisation to local circumstances Implement our Social Value Creation strategy Group-wide No serious human rights incidents Category 3 or above Number of employees and contractors Continue to support and foster development of 154,832 156,468 181,349 talented people regardless of age, gender or race through local employment, internships, scholarships or training Share of female employees % 17 16 16 1 For some indicators, data from previous years has been restated to reflect improvements in our data collection, analysis and validation systems.
2 TRIFR baseline set in 2014, definitions aligned post-merger.
3 Scope 2 indicators have been restated to reflect updated IEA grid emission factors and a shift to the location-based approach of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Glencore Annual Report 2016 23 Strategic report Sustainable development Materiality Risk management Glencores HSEC Management Framework Policy requires The identification, assessment and mitigation of risks regular materiality assessments to determine the Groups determines our approach to sustainability management.
Our 2016 materiality assessment process Risk management is fully integrated into our business considered Group, department and asset priorities, along planning and decision-making processes at every level of with external stakeholder concerns and was approved by the Group, with clearly defined roles, responsibilities and the Board HSEC Committee.
The assessment included key competencies.
information drawn from three areas: All of our assets apply our risk management framework and Our understanding of the issues that affect our business its supporting guidelines.
The framework is aligned with and the natural resources sector international standards and provides a standardised approach to managing our health, safety, environment, What is required of us by law and how this affects community, human rights and reputational risks, as well as our activities those linked to the management of financial and Feedback: topics raised during engagement with our legal issues.
people and external stakeholders Our assets use the framework to identify hazards, In line with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI guidance particularly those with potentially major or catastrophic on materiality, we undertook a Group-wide review of consequences, and to develop plans to address and material topics at global and local levels.
This identified eliminate, or mitigate, the related risks.
Management tools topics raised during structured engagement activities, by a such as protocols, training packages, software and reporting broad range of internal and external stakeholders.
It considered the topics that affect our peers and the entire sector, assessing media coverage and feedback from local We require different levels of risk management for different communities.
It included input from each departments activities.
From routine pre-task risk assessments using HSEC and Corporate Affairs teams on relevant issues and simple tools to formal risk assessments where there are reporting indicators, including interviews and analysis.
changes to a business, to operations or to processes: the introduction of new equipment: or new projects.
We report on topics with global interest or impact, or that affect more than one region.
A topic is considered material if We maintain a register of risks and management plans and senior management determines that it may significantly continually monitor and review performance against these affect our business operations or have a significant impact plans, communicating risks and responsibilities to the on any of our stakeholders.
We also undertake regular internal reviews of our risk management effectiveness as part of our We organised all the material issues raised into a material continuous improvement process.
matters register, with input from each departments sustainability lead.
The final output of the assessment was a HSEC assurance material matters matrix and corresponding Our internal HSEC assurance programme has a primary reporting indicators.
focus on the systematic management of catastrophic The ten issues we have identified to focus on in 2017 were: hazards that have been identified by each of our commodity departments, and their relevant controls and critical Health and safety controls.
We put a high priority on accountability.
Catastrophic hazard management Our assessment criteria and methodologies are transparent: Process safety management the emphasis is on finding constructive solutions for Climate change and emissions continual improvement.
Water and effluents In 2016 we finalised our HSEC auditing system, which is a Waste and spills key part of our internal assurance programme.
The systems now in place ensure that all auditing of the way we address Local community engagement and social commitment compliance catastrophic hazards is undertaken by experienced subject matter experts and its findings are actively followed-up and Human rights and grievance mechanisms verified.
The programme is contributing to improving Product stewardship standards and performance Group-wide.
All findings and Emerging regulations follow-up actions are presented to the Board HSEC Committee.
The Board HSEC Committee has reviewed and approved the results of this materiality assessment.
24 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Fatalities per region 20142016 Safety Number 2016 2015 2014 13 Africa 7 8 1 Australia 0 1 The safety of our people North 0 The health and safety of our people is our top priority.
1 America 0 We are committed to achieving strong health and safety South 0 performances at all of our assets through resolving local 2 America challenges and transforming behaviour at all levels of our 1 organisation.
Rest 2 0 of world 6 Strategy and approach We take a proactive, preventative approach towards health All our assets are implementing our SafeWork programme.
and safety and our aim is to establish a positive safety Each asset has completed a gap analysis against our fatal culture in which all of our employees and contractors are hazard protocols requirements.
This included identifying empowered to have the authority to stop work if they and implementing controls, and producing detailed action consider a workplace or situation unsafe.
We believe that all plans to close out any identified gaps.
SafeWork also occupational fatalities, diseases and injuries are preventable.
requires training in hazard awareness, risk assessment, We are working towards achieving this ambition through life-saving behaviours and safety leadership.
A key element of In 2014, we identified a small number of our operations as SafeWork is its focus on eliminating fatalities and serious focus assets.
These assets are located in challenging injuries through encouraging life-saving behaviours and geographies and have legacy issues that have historically developing a better understanding of the consequences of resulted in them having a lower safety performance than unsafe actions.
An important tool in improving safety at our operations has During 2016, 13 fatalities from five incidents took place at been the recording of high potential risk incidents HPRIs.
We are determined to bring about Reporting on HPRIs trends and making corrective actions permanent structural change in our safety and risk directly is helping to prevent the systemic cause of fatalities.
management, through the implementation of our SafeWork and Catastrophic Hazard Management programmes.
Performance We recognise that more work needs to be done to strengthen It is with deep regret that we have not met our goal of zero each assets capabilities around sustaining the prevention fatalities.
16 people lost their lives at our operations, of fatalities.
All loss of life is unacceptable and we are determined to eliminate fatalities across Reducing injury frequency rates our Group.
Our long-term goal of reducing employee and contractor Fatalities at managed operations injuries targets the delivery of year-on-year reductions in Number our lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR.
Our LTIFR are Fatalities Incidents recorded when an employee or contractor is unable to work following an incident: days recorded begin on the first 16 rostered shift that the worker is absent after the day of the 16 2016 injury.
It reflects the total number of LTIs per million hours 8 worked and does not include restricted work injuries 2015 10 7 or fatalities.
For the first year since 2010, we have not delivered a year-on-year improvement in LTIFR.
The absolute number of lost time injuries continues to reduce.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 25 Strategic report Sustainable development Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR Health per million hours worked 1.40 2016 1.40 2015 1.34 1.60 2014 Promotion of health and wellbeing in our workforce The total recordable injury frequency rate TRIFR is the We believe that all occupational diseases can be prevented.
sum of fatalities, lost time injuries, restricted work injuries We are working to address risks to the health of our and medical treatment injuries per million hours worked.
workforce, both from exposure to hazards in the workplace, The metric represents all injuries that require medical and from broader lifestyle challenges.
The most common treatment beyond first aid.
health hazards in our workplaces continue to be the manual handling of heavy loads, noise, silica, lead, diesel exhaust During 2015, we set a long-term goal of achieving a 50% particles, acid mist and particulate matter dust containing reduction in TRIFR by the end of 2020, using our 2014 TRIFR heavy metals.
of 5.02 as the baseline restated as a result of enhanced definitions and improved data accuracy and recording of Outside of our operations, the regions in which we operate reporting indicators.
Following the merger with Xstrata in have a diverse range of health problems, including HIV 2013, 2014 was the first year all our assets had harmonised AIDS and malaria in Africa, malnutrition in South America, their TRIFR reporting definitions.
Our 2016 TRIFR of 4.05 is and diabetes and obesity in Canada and Australia.
Our current The challenges relating to eliminating occupational diseases TRIFR is on track to meet the progressive improvement vary with each sites operational processes and procedures.
required to meet our long-term goal.
We have developed three key objectives to meet our Total recordable injury frequency rate TRIFR strategic intent in occupational disease management: per million hours worked Healthy workplaces where exposures to hazards are controlled at the source 4.05 Fit for work ensures the capabilities of employees is appropriate for the tasks being undertaken 2016 4.05 4.35 2015 Fit for life delivers wellbeing initiatives that reflect the 5.02 2014 health needs of individuals in the workplace and those of the local community 405 High Potential Risk Incidents HPRIs were reported in 2016, compared to 338 for all of 2015.
The reporting of HPRIs Underpinning the three core pillars and reflecting our represents a positive part of our strategy to reduce fatalities identified material issues, emerging issues including and, as such, we do not target a reduction in this metric.
regulations in relation to health and wellbeing are being We are encouraging our workforce to recognise the need to monitored and assessed.
record and report HPRIs through the promotion of a The framework and key objectives for our Health Strategy risk-based safety culture.
We have consolidated our leading practices, developed tools to support the implementation of the Health Strategy and established indicators to measure performance.
These resources are being shared throughout Glencore.
Performance In 2016, 93% of our sites reported no new cases of occupational disease, compared to 94% of sites in 2015.
89 new cases of occupational disease have been recorded in2016 2015: 127.
26 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information During 2017, we will further evaluate our assets using our new approach on high water-related risk sites.
We will Environment assess current water management practices at high risk assets to identify potential areas for improvement.
We will run a pilot study using ICMMs catchment-based water management approach.
This approach provides a comprehensive and systematic approach for identifying, evaluating and responding to catchment-based waterEnvironment related risks throughout the assets lifecycle as well as their Our operations have direct and indirect impact on the impact on other users.
environment in regions where we operate.
We work to minimise and mitigate any negative impact from our Water withdrawn 3 million m activities and are always looking for ways to improve our performance.
We are committed to reducing our environmental impact, including the efficient use of 970 resources, such as energy and water, wherever possible.
2016 970 954 2015 Our water footprint 996 2014 Water is an essential component of our business activities.
2016 data is not directly comparable to prior periods due to disclosed changes in data More than half of our operations are located in water-scarce reporting methodology.
We are committed to managing our impact on water We report to the CDP Water Disclosure programme.
We are implementing new technologies to help minimise or eliminate water discharge.
Treatment of waste We prioritise efficient water use, water reuse recycling, Most of our waste is mineral: this includes tailings, slag and responsible waste water disposal and maintaining any rock.
Our operations have rigorous waste management equipment that may pose a hazard to water quality.
systems to dispose of waste while preventing environmental We engage with local water users to avoid material adverse contamination.
We reuse as much waste as possible, for impacts on the quality and quantity of local water sources example we use waste rock to backfill our mines and fill or compromising their access to water.
We follow a risk-based approach for the implementation of Our metal and coal assets generate tailings, which are water management plans.
Each asset is required to develop stored in purpose-built tailing storage facilities.
The tailings a water management plan that reflects its lifecycle, the are placed in specially designed ponds filled with tailings identification of the steps needed to eliminate or mitigate and water: over time, the water evaporates while the tailings water impacts and risks, and the identification of settle, eventually filling the dam.
At this point, the dam is opportunities to improve operational water performance, capped, sealed and rehabilitated.
including the setting of water-related targets where needed.
Tailings facilities are heavily regulated and undergo regular Asset-based targets include water efficiency targets, inspections.
Our facilities are monitored continuously to reducing the withdrawal of fresh water, and increasing the ensure integrity and structural stability.
In addition to quality of discharged water.
ongoing local assurance, our corporate HSEC assurance During 2016, we reviewed and revised our approach to team audits our tailings facilities against a defined protocol measuring our water-related performance, aligning our that is aligned with international best practice.
reporting indicators with the commonly-accepted Water Accounting Framework WAF of the Minerals Council of Australia.
This will enable us to create comprehensive water balances for all our assets, which supports improved measuring and reporting on water.
Our revised reporting process has resulted in a number of amendments to the indicators and their definitions.
As a result, our 2016 water data cannot be fully aligned with reporting from previous years.
However, our improved water performance reporting will greatly improve data accuracy going forward.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 27 Strategic report Sustainable development During 2016, our hazardous and non-hazardous mineral waste totalled 2,025 million tonnes Community and human 2015: 2,111 million tonnes.
rights Hazardous and non-hazardous mineral waste million tonnes 2,025 Respecting fundamental human rights 2016 2,025 Our operations have many contacts with the communities in 2,111 2015 2,244 which we work.
It is vital that we uphold the human rights 2014 of our people and our local communities, including vulnerable people such as women, indigenous people and Air emissions victims of conflict.
This is particularly relevant in regions Wherever we operate, we comply with relevant regulatory where our assets require additional security.
limits and international standards for air emissions.
Our approach to respecting fundamental human rights is Our open cut operations emit dust from excavation and aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and movement of material.
We monitor dust levels at affected Human Rights Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework, as communities and minimise dust in a number of ways.
well as the ILO Core Conventions.
Each of our operations is In 2016, our SO emissions totalled 402,000 tonnes 2 required to identify human rights risks as part of their risk 2015: 366,000 as a result of increased production volumes at assessment processes that are undertaken at key phases of one site and changes in the feed composition at another site.
All our operations are required to have in place grievance Managing the closure of operations mechanisms that are accessible, accountable and fair, and Throughout the life of each operation, it must have a closure that enable our stakeholders to raise concerns without fear plan that is continuously maintained, including appropriate of recrimination.
As some of our operations enter suspensions or closure, we are aware of the importance of Performance managing our environmental impacts throughout this Following our successful application to join the Voluntary process.
We also work closely with the host communities to Principles Initiative in 2015, we are working with the manage the transition and identify opportunities for member governments, companies and NGOs to further delivering positive, lasting change.
develop our approach towards human rights.
In 2016, we reviewed our approach to the management of grievances throughout our operations, and developed further guidance to ensure alignment with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Working in partnership with local communities The communities surrounding our operations are our neighbours, employees, business partners and future workforce.
Through our commitment to two-way dialogue with our local communities we aim to secure a broad base of support for our activities.
We aim to foster sustainable growth where we operate.
We contribute to society throughout our value chain, via employment, procurement, enterprise development, infrastructure and social investment programmes.
28 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Local employment Our people Our most significant impact on the regions where we are present is through employment, both directly and via contractors.
Local employment is particularly significant in developing countries, where our local employees can support as many as nine people each.
Improving the prosperity of our workforce also funds a general uplift in local economies, resulting in further job creation.
Developing and supporting our workforce Our people are fundamental to our success, underpinning Local procurement our ability to succeed and grow.
We aim to provide clear, We use local suppliers wherever possible, as this is costattractive career paths and safe, healthy workplaces that are effective and helps communities to reduce their reliance on free from discrimination and harassment.
It is also an important Our success relies strongly on our ability to attract, develop building block for the development of local economies: in and retain the best talent at every level.
We choose the best some countries, national development objectives determine people for each position and reward our people procurement requirements for each region.
competitively, in line with market conditions and their Local infrastructure contribution to our overall business success.
We provide our people with the opportunity to develop and grow their Our operations are often in remote and underdeveloped skills, expertise and experience and the confidence to areas, where we can share infrastructure such as roads, enhance their careers.
water and electricity with our host communities.
This infrastructure will last long after our activities end, not Diversity only boosting current economic growth but contributing to We believe that a diverse workforce is essential for a a sustainable future.
successful business and seek to ensure that our workforce reflects the diversity of the communities in which we Performance operate.
We value diversity and treat employees and We are committed to maintaining open and constructive contractors fairly, providing equal opportunities throughout relationships with our host communities, and contributing the organisation.
In 2016, our workforce was made up of to their long-term resilience.
We seek to maintain 15,857 17% female employees, compared to 16,382 16% engagement strategies that are aligned with the business during 2015. objectives, and are based on a thorough understanding of community needs and concerns.
Where relevant, we Protecting labour rights develop targeted engagement strategies to work with vulnerable groups.
We are committed to upholding the International Labour Organizations ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles During the year, we continued to target contributions to and Rights at Work and their Core Labour Standards.
initiatives that benefit our host communities.
In 2016, this We prohibit any form of child, forced or bonded labour at contribution totalled $84 million.
any of our operations and do not tolerate discrimination or harassment.
We endeavour to have a positive and Our community development projects are in three focus areas: capacity building, including education, enterprise constructive relationship with the unions in the locations where we operate.
development and economic diversification: health and environment.
Wherever possible, we seek to work closely Industrial relations with host governments, and to strengthen governmental capacity through training and other support.
Around 70% of our employees are represented by an independent trade union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement.
We uphold our employees right to freedom of association, right to unionise and collective representation, regardless of their location or function.
We are committed to working honestly and transparently with labour unions and undertake negotiations in good faith.
