STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility MAKING A DIFFERENCE LOCALLY AND NATIONALLY As a leading pub company in the UK, with 3,035 pubs, restaurants and hotels, OUR CUSTOMERS two breweries and 44,000 team members, we understand the importance of making a positive contribution to the communities we serve and operating We pride ourselves on offering our customers the very best experience when they visit us and we continue to focus on delivering industry-leading ina responsible, sustainable way.
value, service and quality to our customers.
With over 3,000 pubs, restaurants and hotels across the country, we want to make sure that everybodys During this year, we have been focused time is well spent when they visit us.
on integrating Spirit Pub Company, We are committed to supporting our customers to make healthier lifestyle taking learnings and applying a best of decisions and providing them with safe, affordable and memorable experiences.
both approach to our corporate social responsibility CSR.
We are pleased Healthy eating tohave made considerable progress We continue to review the nutritional profiles of a range of our dishes and made some positive changes to enable our customers to make healthier onthe integration and we are now eating choices.
We continually review our products and, as part of this, we have made improvements to a range of sauces, such as an 80% reduction of sugar We will continue to develop our inour standard French dressing.
We are reviewing the childrens menu CSRstrategy around four key areas: choices across our brands to improve the nutritional profile of our dishes.
our customers, our teams, our One of our premium childrens burgers now has a 59% reduction in salt.
Our Hungry Horse childrens menu also now includes a number of dishes communities and our environment.
that are lower in salt, including chicken curry and rice, penne pasta and asalad bowl.
This will continue to be akey focus area for Greene King.
We continue to provide a range of lower calorie menu options for customers who are counting the calories and looking for a lighter option when dining out.
As a key part of the menu development process, we will review and develop our menus and our focus for the future is to continue to expand our nutritional expertise along with providing lower calorie and healthier options for our customers.
Allergens We are working towards the development of our company strategy on nutrition.
Following our acquisition of Spirit, we have an opportunity to review our nutritional policies to ensure we have a clear set of guidelines.
We are evaluating all of our allergen procedures to ensure that we have oneprocess in place across the group.
This will ensure we remain safe and compliant with legislation as we continue to provide our customers with allergen information about the meals we provide.
38 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT We are proud that out of the 1,618 pubs visited in the year by local Gluten environmental health officers, 1,521 94% received a 4 or 5 star rating.
We continue to respond to the growing demand to provide a range of dishes Such high scores are a reflection of how hard our managers and team for customers wishing to avoid gluten.
Our spring summer menus include a members work to maintain the highest standards, along with our continued number of new non-gluten dishes including a mushroom and goats cheese investment in improving the quality of our kitchens.
We will continue to work risotto and chilli salmon, with kale, sweet potato and toasted seeds.
hard to ensure all of our pubs are doing everything they can to maintain the highest standards of hygiene.
Awards Our hard work and focus on providing our customers with the very best Quality standards for our beers value, service and quality has once again been recognised this year: Once again, the Westgate Brewery in Bury St Edmunds and the BelhavenBrewery in Dunbar both maintained an A grade rating with the We won Best Managed Operator at the Publican Awards, which new British Retail Consortium version 7 standard, confirming that our beers recognised our food offering, diverse portfolio of brands, commitment are produced to the very highest of quality and food safety standards.
to investing in our people and our charity work.
The quality and dispense services team in our Brewing & Brands division Wacky Warehouse won UKs Best Childrens Activity Provider 2016 completed over 1,400 trade quality audits, including 850 independent Cask atthe Tommys awards.
Marque audits covering our entire Pub Partners and Inns estates.
Asa result, we have again improved the quality standards in our cellars and We won Best Premium High Street Pub Menu 2016 at the MIDAS dispense equipment, which has led to improved standards and a pass Menu Innovation and Development Awards.
We were given a Good Egg Award by Compassion in World Farming We have seen many of our beers win awards at the Monde Selection, an inrecognition of our commitment to using only free range eggs across independent quality award, and we were proud that four of our beers, the business in the next five years.
Old Speckled Hen, Abbot Ale, Belhaven Black and Belhaven Wee Heavy, received the Gold Award this year.
Food standards Providing our customers with consistently high quality food is paramount Responsible retailing to us and we do this by actively promoting kitchen standard excellence.
Tackling underage sales InPub Company, this is achieved through training, external audits, open dialogue with local authorities and operational incentive schemes.
We train all new Pub Company bar team members on our central online training tool, which provides training on the obligations and responsibilities of the employee including materials highlighting the impact of alcohol on children.
The training course must be completed and passed before our team members can serve alcohol.
All of our Pub Company premises operate the Challenge 21 or Challenge 25 programmes.
We also support the principles laid out in the Portman Code of Practice on the responsible retailing of alcohol.
Not only are all general managers and front of house team members trained when they join us, but we also ensure this training is ongoing so they always understand their role in promoting the responsible consumption of alcohol byour customers.
Best Bar None and Pub Watch schemes We are proud that a significant number of our Belhaven pubs achieved Best Bar None accreditations this year, including 19 golds, ten silvers andthreebronze awards.
In England, our pubs belong to Pub Watch and Best Bar None where access to these schemes is available.
We have an ongoing Designated driver campaign We are passionate about encouraging our customers to enjoy responsibly and during 2015s festive season, we once again supported Coca Colas commitment towards Designated Driver Christmas Campaign.
This was the seventh year inarow that we rewarded designated drivers with free soft drinks.
developing healthier menu Minimum unit pricing for alcohol options for our guests.
We continue to call on the government to introduce minimum unit pricingin the UK.
Alcohol should never be cheaper to buy than water andgovernment policy must address the sale of alcohol at pocket money prices.
We believe that the minimum unit pricing of alcohol would beameaningful step in reducing alcohol-related harm.
Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 39 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility continued OUR COMMUNITIES As a pub company, we have a unique opportunity to play an active role The Get into Hospitality programme will offer 150 of the UKs most inthe communities we serve and support good causes.
disadvantaged 16-25 year olds an opportunity to develop skills in the hospitality sector, achieve accredited hospitality qualifications and support We have been running pubs for over 200 years and are committed to them into jobs and other positive outcomes in the industry.
continuing to being present and involved with community life for many more.
That is why our charity programme is so important to us.
Subject to successfully completing the three week programme, we aim tooffer jobs and a place on our award-winning apprenticeship scheme toas many course participants as possible.
Macmillan Cancer Support In March this year, we announced that our teams and customers had raised There will be ten programmes offered around the country over the next more than 2m for our national charity partner, Macmillan Cancer Support, 12 months.
We have successfully completed our first course in London.
To mark this milestone, we were proud to renew Other locations include Liverpool, Portsmouth and Glasgow.
our partnership with the cancer charity for a further three years.
Pub is the Hub Our team members have carried out a wide range of fundraising activities including cake sales and taking part in challenges such as the Yorkshire Three For the third year, we have donated to the Pub is the Hub Community Peaks and the London Marathon.
Our pubs, restaurants and hotels across Services Fund in order to support rural pubs that want to diversify their the country have pulled together with national campaigns such as the services for the benefit of their communities.
Over the course of the Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning as well as supporting many local three years, the money we have donated to the fund comes to 45,000. fundraisers within their communities.
The Community Services Fund, which has been running since April 2013, We were proud to be recognised by the All Party Parliamentary Beer Group aimsto offer funds to licensees who are looking to broaden their services to by winning the 2016 PubAid award for our fundraising for Macmillan.
the wider community but are unable to find suitable funding from other sources.
With grants available of up to 4,000, applicants have to demonstrate that they will be offering a new service or replacing a service that has already Princes Trust beenlost to the local community, such as a local shop or a library.
As a leader in the hospitality industry, we want to support young people into work by offering opportunities to learn a skill and a trade and helping Prostate Cancer UK them start their career journeys.
As part of this ambition, this year we announced a partnership with The Princes Trust.
Over 600 of our pubs across the country raised more than 71,000 forProstate Cancer UK during last years Rugby World Cup.
Taylor Walker, Flaming Grill and Chef & Brewer pubs partnered with Prostate Cancer UK last autumn to help support the charitys Men United movement in reaching men.
As well as individual pub fundraising events, a select few were fully transformed into Men United Arms.
The pubs were rebranded for a few days using Prostate Cancer UK branded signs, bunting, beer mats, drip trays and team uniforms.
Great Ormond Street Hospital Our Taylor Walker pub brand celebrated completing a ten year charity partnership programme with Great Ormond Street Hospital which raised 100,000 for the childrens charity.
ITV Text Santa Customers and team members at our pubs raised 26,000 in aid of ITVs 2015 Text Santa fundraising appeal by holding Christmas quizzes.
W e are supporting Pubs across the country, including the Hungry Horse and Chef & Brewer 150 young people brands and Greene King Local pubs, took part in the national Text Santa Christmas Quiz during December.
The much-needed funds contributed tothe appeals record-breaking 8.5m total.
through our Princes Cash raised during the appeal is being split between ITV Text Santas chosen charities, Macmillan Cancer Support, Make-A-Wish UK and Save the Children.
40 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR TEAM MEMBERS Our people are our greatest asset.
We now have 44,000 team members Diversity and our ambition is to be the best employer for each of them.
We We take pride in making sure all of our team members are given the same continue to focus on attracting and retaining the best people but also opportunities to achieve their full potential.
We are committed to our equal understand the importance of motivating, engaging and developing our opportunities policy to ensure that our team members and candidates are team members right across the business.
recruited, developed, remunerated and promoted on the basis of their skills and suitability for the work performed.
Employee engagement We promote an environment in our pubs, restaurants, hotels, Our Employee Engagement Survey is a valuable tool to help us build the headquarters, pub company support centre and breweries, that is free best pub company in Britain.
This survey provides us with a wealth of from discrimination.
We work to a policy in which no employee receives information that we are committed to actioning across the business.
less favourable treatment on the grounds of their colour, nationality, race, religion belief, ethnic or national origin, sex, marital or civil partnership status, gender reassignment whether proposed, started or completed Developing our talent and under or not under medical supervision, disability or past disability, We recognise the talent that all our team members bring to Greene King part-time or fixed-term status, pregnancy or maternity, parental and, by nurturing this talent when they first arrive, we aim to provide an responsibilities, sexual orientation or age a protected characteristic.
environment through development and opportunity that allows them toflourish and craft their own career.
Gender diversity Percentage Male Female Total female Apprenticeships We pride ourselves on developing and investing in our team members Directors 6 1 7 14 andalso supporting those who are just beginning their careers.
In March, Senior managers we pledged to take on a further 10,000 apprentices during the next three excluding directors 164 51 215 24 years.
Since the launch of our award-winning apprenticeship scheme in 2011, All employees 23,051 21,085 44,137 48 we have helped support over 7,400 apprentices to achieve a qualification while working in our pubs.
Workplace pensions The scheme offers bespoke qualifications that cover a range of job roles We are fully compliant with Workplace Pensions Reform Regulations and including front of house, kitchen and management roles which are tailored to each of the Greene King retail brands.
The course, which has been enrol our employees automatically into a qualifying workplace pension.
commended by the Prime Minister David Cameron at a reception hosted at 10 Downing Street, has received numerous awards this year including: Support for our tenants Apprenticeships 4 Englands Macro Employer of the Year: National We have been successfully providing opportunities for self-employed Apprenticeship Service Regional Winner East of England : VQ Employer entrepreneurs for over 200 years and, following the acquisition of Spirit, ofthe Year: and was named as aTop 100 Apprenticeship Employer our Greene King Pub Partners division has grown to more than 1,200 pubs.
We continue to provide a variety of different agreement options for a Creating jobs high quality estate of pubs, ranging from Michelin-starred premium food pubs to the village local at the heart of the community.
Our pubs are as Thanks to the opening of newly-built Hungry Horse and Farmhouse Inns pubs, we have been able to create 1,000 new jobs across the country individual as the people who run them and often thrive on offering genuine local provenance and community activity.
The level of support that we provide to our tenants and lessees is central In many areas of the country where we run recruitment drives for our new pubs, we hold a two week pre-employment training programme in to us being a preferred partner to the best licensees in the country.
conjunction with local Job Centre Plus teams.
The schemes prove to be very popular and successful and we are able to welcome successful Our support is tailored to meet the individual needs of our licensee partners and their staff.
This year we have developed industry-leading training courses candidates to our team.
to support our partners in a number of areas, including digital marketing, management development and becoming a multiple operator.
In keeping with our best of both approach, we have taken on an innovative We pledge to recruit food supply service which was originally used in Spirit and is now, in its first year, supplying food to around 120 pubs.
10,000 apprentices during Our Brewing & Brands dispense team helps our tenants and lessees tomaintain consistently outstanding cellar quality ensuring that our beer the next three years.
brands are always being offered at their best.
This is all underpinned byour professionally qualified business development managers BDMs whoare trained to the highest levels in the industry and who are dedicated tosupporting all our licensee partners in making the most of their business opportunities.
Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 41 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility continued OUR ENVIRONMENT Energy We are compliant with the governments Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme ESOS, which is a mandatory energy assessment scheme in the UK.
It looks at actions taken and plans made by businesses to reduce energy usage and must be completed every four years.
We audited the energy used by our buildings, pubs and breweries to identify cost-effective energy saving measures.
Procedures in place include but are not exclusive to: The ability to measure electricity usage on a 24 7 basis in all of our pubs, allowing us to analyse any long or short-term changes.
We have similar information for mains gas usage in c. 97% of our pubs.
Ongoing engagement across our business to encourage teams to save energy provided it does not detract from our customers experience.
65% of our pubs internal lighting is now via LED bulbs.
We also have anenhanced boiler replacement programme to move older sites to We were winners of the energy-saving condensing technology and linked to heating control systemsto reduce gas usage.
Water Efficient Project Waste We are signatories to Courthauld 2025 a voluntary ten year agreement at the Energy Awards that brings together organisations across the food system, with a goal ofmaking food and drink production and consumption more sustainable.
As part of this commitment we have partnered with SWR waste management and the Economic to deliver a recycling-led waste management solution to our pub estate.
The ultimate aim is to achieve zero waste to landfill and propel the business to the forefront of the hospitality industry with a best practice waste initiative.
Sustainability category Short-term plans involve all pubs segregating food from dry materials andin the longer term we plan to implement Spirits award-winning at the Footprint backhaul solution to the entire Greene King estate.
We will continue to implement the best of both philosophy, by following Foodservice Awards.
Spirits lead in its diversion from landfill rate, which is currently 96% for all waste collected direct from ex-Spirit pubs.
In the last year the ex-Spirit pubs have also seen a reduction in general waste of 2%, glass volume of 23% and overall waste volume of 6%.
Across the Greene King estate diversion of waste from landfill stands at57% with 20,696 tonnes ofwastebeing recycled in total.
42 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CO emissions by type 2 2015 16 2014 15 tonnes tonnes Source of emissions of CO e of CO e 2 2 Direct emissions scope 1 Natural gas 61,940 41,741 Gas oil 1,186 806 Kerosene 188 197 Liquefied petroleum gas 5,525 2,624 Red diesel 78 81 Refrigerants 3,115 3,196 Owned vehicles 7,669 7,486 Total direct emissions scope 1 79,700 56,131 Indirect emissions scope 2 Electricity 167,562 111,240 Gross emissions 247,263 167,371 Revenue in Pub Company and Brewing & Brands 000 1,885,100 1,193,400 Tonnes CO e per 100k revenue 13.117 14.025 2 Mandatory greenhouse gas reporting Water The table above, which has been produced in compliance with the In readiness for market deregulation in 2017, we have been working hard requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors to take best practice from the acquisition of Spirit and apply a best of Report Regulations 2013, shows the main greenhouse gas emissions in both approach across the estate.
Water benchmarking across brands tonnes of CO equivalent CO e for our scope 1 direct and scope 2 continues and we have conducted 149 audits of high-consuming pubs 2 2 indirect CO emissions.
The figures below include those of Spirit from tohighlight opportunities for greater efficiency.
2 the date of acquisition, 23 June 2015, except where stated.
We have again managed to reduce consumption on a like-for-like basis.
Scope 1 relates to the direct emissions from the fuels we use in our Spirit was named winner of the Water Efficient Project at the Energy breweries, pubs, restaurants, hotels and offices such as natural gas and Awards, and, as a group, we won the Economic Sustainability category liquid petroleum gas.
It also includes although not for Spirit emissions from atthe Footprint Awards.
Both awards recognised our continued effort owned vehicles including company cars but excludes logistics where we todrive water usage downwards.
outsource this to third parties.
Refrigerant gas and F-gas emissions in respect of our breweries, pubs and restaurants are alsoincluded, except Our focus has been to ensure that our water data is in the best possible in relation to Spirit.
shape to allow us to target more effectively and take advantage of any opportunities that the opening market has to offer from a fiscal or socially We have used the UK governments greenhouse gas GHG Conversion responsible perspective.
Factors for Company Reporting for all scope 1 emissions 2014 for 2014 15 and 2015 for 2015 16.
GHG emissions from refrigeration and air conditioning At our Bury St Edmunds brewery we are continually looking at ways to units have been determined using the simplified material balance method reduce our water usage.
Current initiatives include reviewing tank cleaning as described in the Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2013. programmes and pipeline flushes to maximise efficiency.
Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions associated with the generation of electricity consumed in our sites.
Emissions have been calculated using the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme factor 2014 for 2014 15 and 2015 for 2015 16.
Electricity and gas figures in the table below cover the CRC reporting period from 1 April to 31 March each year, whilst all other figures cover our respective financial years.
The intensity ratio refers to revenue in ourPub Company and Brewing & Brands businesses as the vast majority of our CO emissions relate to those businesses.
2 Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 43 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility continued SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION Case study: supporting our communities Angefrancois Kevin Grah, 21, is one of the students from the Princes Trust pilot scheme, which was held in London in April and May.
He successfully completed the course and is now one of our team members at Loch Fyne Covent Garden, where he received his on-the-job training.
He now hopes to move onto our apprenticeship scheme.
Id been unemployed for a couple of months after having to leave my job as a chef at a local Chinese restaurant.
I left school with only one GCSE, inItalian.
So, I was struggling to be offered job interviews.
A friend of mine actually told me about the Princes Trust and so I decided to attend the open day, and Im glad I did.
The course taught me a lot, but my highlight really was the work placement at Loch Fyne.
I was mostly in the kitchen, learning the role ofthe chef, and it was great to be able to be so involved.
Working in David Redpath, general manager of Loch Fyne Covent Garden, who was sucha fast-paced team was brilliant.
I was in my element and everybody abuddy during the London programme, said: was so welcoming.
I thought this was a great programme and was honoured that it was piloted Im so pleased my hard work paid off.
Ive been offered a job at the in our restaurant.
Get into Hospitality gives young people who havent yet LochFyne in CoventGarden and, around my college classes, I work evenings had the best of chances, the opportunity to showcase themselves and prove and weekends as a waiter.
I would love nothing more than to have a long that they really can get the job done.
Its a fantastic scheme, which really does future with Greene King.
Maybe, one day, Ill be running my own pub or help young people learn and progress, and Id definitely volunteer to help restaurant and helping to support young people.
We had two students train at our restaurant, and it felt great to watch them graduate at the end of the programme and I was proud to offer our candidates two full time jobs.
They have a lot of work and training ahead of them, but I know and trust they can do it.
Case study: investing in our people Despite the many celebrity chefs on our televisions, there is an industry shortage of chefs.
However, our award-winning apprenticeship scheme aims to buck the trend, with 719 out of 2,876 apprentices working in ourkitchens.
Gabrielle Green, 18, has been an apprentice chef at the Ship in Bedford for nine months.
After completing her GCSEs, she decided that she did not want to continue with typical further education and left school attheage of 16.
Now working towards her Level 2 in Hospitality certificate, Gabrielle said: Ive always had an interest in cooking, right from a very young age, so being a trainee chef as a Greene King apprentice really was an easy move to make.
I didnt want to be stuck in a classroom all the time, and now I get the chance to learn while being paid at the same time.
I really enjoy working in such a fast-paced team and developing not only Being a trainee chef as my education, but also myself.
For instance, I have the chance to cook and taste food that Ive never experienced before, and preparing meals is such an important responsibility.
I really can see myself growing as a person and a Greene King apprentice would recommend to anybody wanting to learn on the job to look into becoming an apprentice.
Its not only for young people either anybody, was an easy move to make.
atany stage of their lives can do it.
APPROVAL OF THE STRATEGIC REPORT Pages 2 to 44 of the annual report form the strategic report.
Lindsay Keswick Company secretary By order of the board 28 June 2016 44 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 CORPORATE 46 Board of directors 47 Corporate governance statement 51 Nomination committee report GOVERNANCE 52 Audit committee report 55 Remuneration report 67 Directors report and disclosures 69 Directors responsibilities statements
