TOTAL RISK 300 Governance continued 50 ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The table below is an actual extract of the risk register, illustrating How are these risks managed?
our approach to evaluating risk: To ensure our risk process drives continuous improvement across the business, the Internal Audit function monitors the ongoing status and progress of key action plans RISK NO 10.22 against each risk regularly.
In addition, risk appetite and mitigation matters remain a AREA Group Finance Treasury key consideration in all strategic decision-making by senior executive management MOVEMENT Static and the Board.
RISK TITLE Exchange rate volatility The main categories of risk identied currently by this process are as follows: RISK VELOCITY MEDIUM Technology the risk of developing and maintaining product offering DESCRIPTION The risk that exchange rate losses can occur onproprietary software.
due to extremely rapid shifts in the exchange rates due to market volatility Regulation the risk that changes outside the control of the Group affect its RISK CATEGORY Economic, Financial & Market Risk ability to operate and that without compliant systems and processes in place the EXISTING CONTROLS ACTION TAKEN 1.
Currencies are held in the required Group could breach regulatory requirements.
currency and there are predened Taxation the risk that the Group incurs increased tax expenditure as a result of exposure limits on other currencies.
changes outside of the Groups control.
Reporting currencies and functional currencies have been aligned, reducing Country and currency risk the risk of adverse foreign exchange movements theexposure to exchange rate uctuations due to countries exiting the Euro.
Impact of Brexit the risk that the Groups ability to operate in certain 3.
FX has been removed from the EUmarkets is impeded.
RISK SCORE Further details on the Groups principal risks and actions to mitigate them are Impact provided in the Principal Risks section on pages 32 and 33.
2 Likelihood 3 Is there a whistleblowing policy?
Residual Risk Score 6 The Group adopted and published a formal whistleblowing procedure by which PREVIOUS RISK SCORE employees can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in Impact 2 financial or other matters.
This procedure is set out in the Groups employee Likelihood 3 handbooks having first been reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
Residual Risk Score 6 The Group seeks the highest ethical standards in carrying out its various business Risk Action TOLERATE activities, and corrupt practices of any sort will not be tolerated.
The Group Action Required Director of treasury to continue to monitor is committed to tackling malpractice and it is the personal responsibility of exchange rates and ensure that enough every employee of the Group to manage and reduce the riskofmalpractice in balances are held in those currencies required their business.
Date Nov-16 The Group actively encourages individuals, where they believe that malpractice has Responsible Leadership Member CFO taken place, to make protected disclosures either internally to the Audit Committee Responsibility Director of Treasury or externally through the outsourced service provider, Expolink.
Employees will be protected where they have reasonable grounds to believe that their employer, Target Date Ongoing another worker or a third party has committed serious malpractice and make a disclosure in good faith.
GVC Holdings Risk Management Review Strategy 2016: The Group has a written policy available to all employees on the Groups intranet MAIN BOARD and approved by the Audit Committee, which sets out the type of disclosure which Most important risks with the greatest velocity TOP 6 isprotected and also species to whom disclosures should be made and the process that will be followed.
AUDIT COMMITTEE 40 IN TOTAL The Audit Committee is satisfied that robust and appropriate arrangements are in Risks scored between 12 and 16 place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
SENIOR EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT REVIEW 100 IN TOTAL Stephen Morana Risks scored between 8 and 16 Chairman of the Audit Committee BUSINESS UNIT RISK REVIEW 300 IN TOTAL 23 March 2017 All risks within their area GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016
