Jennifer Ward, our Group Sustainability Talent Director, champions our talent leadership and works with our teams to ensure that wehave the right capabilities and best talent required to develop and grow our people to match Halmas growth ambition.
Our commitment We support the concept of sustainability andrecognise that, in common with all businesses, our activities have an environmental impact.
Our strategy is not tohave capital-intensive manufacturing processes and to operate close to our endmarkets in terms of geography, so the environmental impact of our operations is relatively low compared to manufacturers in other sectors.
We also recognise that we can improve our own environmental performance and so resources are deployed to actively reduce our own carbon footprint.
Halma has been a member of the FTSE4Good UK index since its establishment in July 2001.
THE ENVIRONMENT We have an excellent long-term record and aclear strategy for addressing environmental Halma companies are involved in the Health and safety issues that affect our businesses and manufacture of a wide rangeof products Our commitment to safeguarding the fordeveloping products that protect the thatprotect and improve the quality of life for health and safety of our employees while environment and improve safety at work people worldwide.
This report focuses on at work is demonstrated by our culture andin public places.
areas of progress and our performance for all ofsafety and our excellent health and areas of sustainability which are considered OUR PRODUCTS safetyrecord.
to be material by our stakeholders and are Many of our innovative products play a very also important to the success of our business.
positive role in monitoring and improving Halma has developed meaningful key Employee engagement the environment.
Halma brands lead the performance indicators KPIs that reflect the anddevelopment world inanumber of technologies which importance the Group places on sustainability Our commitment to investing in our help to minimise environmental damage.
and enables the Board to monitor the people and developing talent is visible Our principal environmental technologies Groups progress in meeting its objectives through our tailored global development are water leakage detection and wireless and responsibilities in these areas.
monitoring, gas emissions monitoring, water detailsare given on pages 27 and 49. and effluent analysis, UV water treatment and optical sensing.
We promote the use Corporate responsibility These areas of emphasis include health of UV water sterilisation which eliminates andsustainability andsafety, employee engagement and the need to use dangerous chemicals, Our commitment to managing our development, human rights, ethics and as well as making products that minimise business activities in a sustainable way sustainability.
Safety is critical to the Group the waste ofclean water.
and minimising the environmental impact and is a major priority.
We recognise the is evidenced by the reduction of CO2e necessity of safeguarding the health and Our commitment to the development of in our business and the Groups carbon safety of our own employees while at work equipment for measuring and monitoring reduction target.
and operate so as to provide a safe and environmental changes and controlling the comfortable working environment for damaging impact of industrial activities is employees, visitors and the public.
We are the major world supplier Human rights and ethics is to manage our activities to avoid causing inseveral of these areas.
Our commitment to respecting human any unnecessary or unacceptable risks to rights and operating in an ethical way is health and safety and the environment.
OUR IMPACT embedded throughout our Group and Halma has an excellent health and safety The environmental effect of our operations underpins the way that we work.
record and a culture of safety is deeply isrelatively low compared to manufacturers embedded within the Group.
Our manufacturing model isdecentralised, permitting our operations Our core values are Achievement, Innovation, tobelocated close to their customers.
Manufacturing operations are established These core values have been selected across the world for this very reason rather following extensive surveying of employees than to save labour costs.
The ethos of across the Group.
Ourculture is one of beingclose to our customers reflects the openness, integrity and accountability.
importance we place on the quality of our Weencourage our employees to act fairly products and the service levels we provide to intheir dealings with fellow employees, our customers.
It also makes our operations customers, suppliers and business partners.
more flexible and responsive to their markets and customers.
With operations spread We recognise that our employees determine around the globe, our supplier base is our success andwe continue to invest in, understandably fragmented.
Therefore, andencourage further development of, our responsibility for vetting and managing employees each year, not only utilising the suppliers is devolved to local management suite ofHalma development programmes, while meeting the Groups ethical standards.
but also by providing clear leadership and 48 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CARBON FOOTPRINT SYSTEM EMS The Groups policy on carbon is published CO2e emissions reduction We are committed to developing and onour website and has been distributed implementing an EMS throughout the andexplained to all Halma business units.
Groupto measure, control and reduce our Asenior executive in each of our higher Performance Target environmental impacts.
We have developed impact business units is responsible performance indicators that assist local forimplementing the carbon policy at management in implementing the policy locallevel.
Our Finance Director, Kevin 26% 10% andultimately developing an EMS.
All Group Thompson, has principal responsibility reduction over reduction over companies are encouraged to undertake forcoordinating and monitoring the policy.
3 years to 2016 3years to 2016 ISO 14001 accreditation, where warranted.
CO2e emissions We are committed to reducing our carbon The requirement to implement an EMS will footprint.
The Group set a target of reducing be extended to the rest of theGroup in the tonnes m ofrevenue its total carbon emissions relative to revenues medium term.
by 10% over the three years from March Group companies are also encouraged to 2010, which was met in March 2013.
The improve energy efficiency, to reduce waste same target was set for the three year period to March 2016 and has been significantly and emissions and reduce the use of 51 48 exceeded.
The Board are pleased with the materials in order to minimise their 41 carbon emissions reduction across all three environmental impact.
categories of emissions and on a tonne per 43 42 The Group has identified its key 39 m of revenue basis.
For the three year period 36 31 environmental impacts as emissionstoair to March 2019, the Board has agreed a and water, water and energy consumption, targeted reduction of total carbon emissions and wasteproduction.
We established relative torevenues by a further 10%, further 12 13 14 15 16 baseline data for these impacts in 2004 05 demonstrating our commitment in this area.
and set targets for reductions against Due to changes in Defra reporting guidance, the 2013 14 the baseline on a rolling three year cycle.
From April 2010, we have worked with figures onward have been calculated to include Well to Tank WTT emissions and Radiative Forcing on air travel.
We support innovation and investment providers of energy efficiency and carbon It is not required to restate years prior to 2013 14 due to that drives environmental performance.
reduction solutions to ensure compliance the methodological changes.
For example, Fortress Interlocks have with the Carbon Reduction Commitment The figures for 2013 14 onwards have also been calculated on the same basis as prior years excluding Well to Tank implemented an initiative to shred its Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC which is WTT emissions and Radiative Forcing on air travel to allow cardboard waste packaging and use it theUKs mandatory energy saving scheme for a direct comparison over the longer time scale.
as a bulk fill for shipments to customers administered by the Environment Agency.
in place of purchased expanding foam.
Not Weare in full compliance with the CRC only has this had a significant environmental requirements.
All major UK sites have impact, it has also delivered a commercial received an energy survey and set an benefit.
Similarly, sites such as Fortress actionplan for improved energy usage.
Interlocks and our Group head office, have Halma has complied with the Energy Savings replaced halogen lighting with more efficient LED lighting.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG Reporting We continue to work with our consultants to better monitor our environmental performance and future external .
GHG Emissions data for the period 29 March 2015 to 2 April 2016 2015 16 2014 15 CO2e emissions CO2e emissions global tonnes global tonnes Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 3,955 4,348 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 15,083 16,247 Scope 3: Business air travel, WTT Well to Tank 13,883 14,022 Total gross emissions 32,921 34,617 Intensity measure of tonnes of CO e gross emissions per m revenue 40.8 47.7 2 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 cause of any accidents to ensure that we Sustainability continued take preventative measures, including further training and education of our employees.
Given the autonomous structure of the Group, operational responsibility for compliance with relevant local health and safety regulations resides with the board ofeach operating company.
The Halma Board sets the tone and minimum standards expected of Group companies, in addition toits role in monitoring health and safetyperformance.
Opportunity Scheme ESOS regulations TheGroups environmental performance will andsubmitted its compliance report to the continue to be reported both in our Annual Kevin Thompson, Group Finance Director, Environment Agency in November 2015, Report and Accounts and on our website.
isthe director responsible for Halmas health ahead of the 5 December 2015 deadline.
and safety compliance and he is provided HEALTH AND SAFETY Theobservations made following site energy with sufficient information to routinely Halma companies are involved in the surveys were shared with local management monitorhealth and safety performance manufacture of a wide range ofproducts and reviewed centrally at Group level.
thatprotect and improve the quality of life The Group does not operate a fleet of forpeople worldwide.
Therefore, safety is We are also pleased to report that there distribution vehicles although we do own a critical to the Group and is a major priority werenowork-related fatalities in 2015 16 number of company cars.
To support the formanagement and to demonstrate the orprior years.
Groups commitment to sustainability, we Groups added emphasis on health and operate a cap on permissible CO emissions safety.
The Board has endorsed the inclusion OUR PEOPLE 2 for all company vehicles, which is subject to of the Groups Accident Frequency Rate Our sustained, high level of performance has regular review.
AFR as one of our non-financial KPIs on been achieved through the commitment, page 27. innovation and excellence of our people.
We comply with the mandatory carbon reporting requirements which UK The Group manages its activities to avoid We believe in empowerment.
Our listedcompanies are subject to and have causing any unnecessary or unacceptable decentralised management structure reported on all of the emission sources risks to the health and safety of our allows local managers to be autonomous required under the Companies Act 2006 employees inthe workplace or to the public and be responsible for making timely Strategic Report and Directors Reports as a result of our activities.
Health and safety decisions in thebest interests of their Regulations 2013. performance is closely monitored to ensure business.
Halma supports personal and that adequate processes, procedures and professional development through a range We have employed the Operation Control reporting are inplace, and operating, to of training programmes.
The value of this definition to outline ourcarbon footprint ensure a safe working environment for investment is shown both in our financial boundary: included within that boundary are our employees andvisitors to our sites.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from manufacturing Almost all of the members on our Executive sites and offices whichwe own and operate.
Halma has an excellent health and safety Board have been promoted from our Excluded from our footprint boundary are record and a culture of safety is deeply subsidiary companies.
emissions from manufacturing sites and embedded within the Group.
Health and offices which we do notown and control, safety performance is regularly reviewed We are committed to innovation and andemissions considered non-material by at multiple levels within the Group at customer satisfaction.
We have reported on emissions subsidiary board level, at sector level and developing new products and new ways from Scope 1 and 2 emissions sources with by the Halma Board.
Each Group company of working gives us a competitive edge, some Scope 3 emissions sources included is required to have an independent health while delivering solutions to some of the business air travel for all years, and Well and safety review carried out every three worlds major problems in safety, health toTank emissions for 2013 14, 2014 15 years, with a view to ensuring a consistent and theenvironment.
and2015 16. approach in the quality of reporting, We encourage the sharing of knowledge adherence to internal processes and We have also used the GHG Protocol and technology throughout Halma.
This procedures, adequate reporting and Corporate Accounting and Reporting ability totransfer state-of-the-art technology investigation and to promote further Standard revised edition and guidance fromcompany to company, from one ahealthand safety culture.
provided by UKs Department for sectorto another, is something most of our Environment, Food & Rural Affairs The Health and Safety performance this year competitors simply do not have.
Through Defra onvoluntary and mandatory carbon improved against last year but remains above collaboration and sharing best practice we reporting.
Emission factors were used from our target to match our lowest ever recorded continue to deliver market-leading products UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors Accident Frequency Rate of 0.09 in 2014. that create benefits for our customers.
Aswe strive to have zero accidents in our We invest a lot of time finding and developing businesses, we thoroughly review the root the right people who have the initiative, knowledge and leadership qualities to make Injuries recorded a positive impact.
2016 2015 2014 2013 Days lost due to reportable work-related injuries 464 546 118 382 Total recorded injuries to all employees 342 298 323 320 S pecified major injury incidents and reportable incidents which result in more than three working days lost.
50 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In return, we offer: HPD Enterprise was launched in April 2016 making it available in paper format as well and helps our Senior Vice Presidents and as online, and by offering itin various The opportunity to make a difference Managing Directors to think entrepreneurially languages.
In the latest survey, conducted in ourproducts make the world a safer about how they can grow their businesses in January 2016, we had record participation, andhealthier place: fast-changing markets.
HPD Executive and increasing 12% on last year.
The number HPD Management are well established ofmatching values met the target of five An entrepreneurial business culture: programmes and the cumulative number 50% indicating that the alignment between In-house training for personal and ofcandidates that have completed each the values that employees want to see in their professional development: course is set out below: business andthe values that are actually International career development present isvery good.
opportunities: HPD Executive Performance-linked rewards: Our value driven culture consistently demonstrates a sense of purpose in our A culture of innovation: and 194 221 235 263 278 businesses teams that are aligned and An environment in which success highly productive and people that take pride breedssuccess.
in and have commitment to their work resulting in ahighly engaged and loyal PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT customer base.
We offer challenging personal development programmes to raise the quality of leadership The Group will continue to monitor the survey throughout Halma.
Our development results to enable us to better support our programmes are designed to promote people in bringing these values and strengths personal growth, enhance leadership to work so that they and we may derive 12 13 14 15 16 andrelationship skills.
They also offer the further benefit from them.
chancefor employees from diverse Halma HPD Management companies to come together and learn DIVERSITY fromeach other.
We see diversity and inclusiveness as an essential part of our productivity, creativity, Our objective is to provide these individuals 392 471 539 578 638 innovation and competitive advantage.
It with the tools and training they need to isthe foundation of a performance culture achieve more in their existing role and thatpromotes respect, understanding potentially to advance through the andappreciation of different perspectives, organisation if their achievements merit it.
The following courses are offered in China, Developing regions, including China, USA andEurope: Brazil, India and Africa make up an increasing share of the world population.
HPD Enterprise developing ability They will account for approximately 88% of atManaging Director and Sector Vice 12 13 14 15 16 the global population by 2050.
Economically, President level to innovate across all diverse markets represent a growing source During the year we launched a new aspects of the business: of consumption and buying power, and we programme that will see Halma MDs serve as Talent Mindset ensuring the Group must be prepared to serve the needs of the a non-executive director on the board of a andcompany leaders have the capability changing marketplace.
We anticipate to maximise the quality of talent on their two-way benefit from this programme for teams: Because our customer base is constantly both the receiving company to gain additional HPD Executive focusing on the changing and growing, we need to be insight, perspective and talent: and for the leadership skills needed at board level prepared in the following ways: non-executive director to have the inour operating companies: opportunity tosee how another Halma board HPD Management personal diverse and inclusive enough to recognise operates.
development, enhancing self-awareness the needs of customers in our current and and teamwork skills for managerial roles: new markets: OUR VALUES and aware enough to anticipate, respond to, Periodically we complete a survey of HPD Graduate our graduate programme and serve the needs of the changing employees to determine whetherour core recruiting and developing the next marketplace: and values are authentic in our organisation.
generation of leaders and technical Thesurveyestablishes the values individual engaged enough to contribute at the highest specialists.
employees wish to see in our operating levels to deliver superior performance.
culture and to what extent they exist in ourcurrent culture.
In 2006, our survey of senior managers showed that five 50% of thevalues they wanted to see in our business were actually present.
Since then, we have improved the accessibility of the survey by Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSITY Sustainability continued As our businesses continue to expand globally, it is imperative that the insights and perspectives of local markets be represented on our leadership teams.
Several Group initiatives have been implemented to support and encourage our operating companies to put leaders on the ground in key markets.
We have well-established Halma hubs in China and India and have expanded into Brazil as well.
The China hub has introduced innovative R&D programmes to incentivise local product development for local markets.
We continue By increasing the diversity and inclusion of As part of our Diversity and Inclusion to seek ways to ensure that local leadership is our workforce and leveraging the insights Initiative, we have a new programme which contributing to the global business strategies.
ofour diverse talent through an inclusive encourages our operating companies to environment, we enhance our ability to review the diversity of their directors.
Where DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION POLICY compete in the worlds increasingly diverse companies decide that they need greater At Halma we recognise that the diversity of marketplace.
Our efforts are directed towards diversity they now invite a member of staff to the people in our business and the inclusion increasing the proportion of individuals join board discussions and decision-making of all enriches our products, performance withexperience in the business and as co-opted board members.
and the lives of our employees.
We believe geographic markets in which we see that the diversity of our workforce contributes Co-opted board members are chosen for ouroperations growing.
significantly to our aim to protect and improve their ability to make a valuable contribution the quality of life for people worldwide.
Our strong preference is to develop policies to board discussions.
Their participation is and actions which support our long-term entirely voluntary and they have no legal We are building a culture that encourages aims as well as establishing appropriate responsibilities.
They usually contribute talented people of all backgrounds, beliefs or measurable targets.
We believe the former to board discussions for a year and then any form of personal identity to be involved, evolves into being embedded into corporate another employee is invited to fill the role.
respected and inspired to develop to their culture more readily.
1 2 Halma plc Board Directors Other senior managers Other employees 6 3 9 192 21 213 3,238 2,283 5,521 M F Total M F Total M F Total Total number Total % 3,436 2,307 5,743 M F Total Male 60% Female 40% 1 Includes non-executive Directors of the Company.
2 For Halma senior managers is defined as subsidiary company officers and above.
52 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our intention is to create effective team EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION Compliance with, and respect for, these environments that enhance decision-making The Group places considerable value on corerequirements are integrated within processes.
We achieve this by encouraging theinvolvement of its employees and has ourorganisation.
Everyone working for the contribution of unique perspectives and continued to keep them informed on matters Halma is responsible for having due regard capabilities to achieve superior business affecting them as employees and on the for human rights.
Managers and supervisors results through trust, collaboration and various factors affecting theperformance must provide leadership that promotes innovation of new ideas.
This is achieved through human rights as an equal priority to other formal and informal meetings, the Group business issues.
All employees are By ensuring fairness and equality of collaboration platform and the annual responsible for ensuring that their own opportunity in recruitment, training, financial statements.
actions do not impair the human rights of development, career progression and others, and are encouraged to bring forward, Employee representatives are consulted reward, Halma is committed to ensuring in confidence, any concerns they may have routinely on a wide range ofmatters affecting diversity and inclusion in the workplace about human rights.
Our Chief Executive, their current and future interests.
and all areas of ourbusiness.
Andrew Williams, has overall responsibility for ensuring that human rights considerations Each year the Board reviews our policies RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT are integral to the way in which existing and their implementation toensure that they Investing in Halma shares meets the criteria operations and new opportunities are create and maintain a diverse and inclusive of many professional and private investors developed and managed.
To the same end, the Executive who base their decisions on environmental, Board recently revised our KPIs for Diversity ethical and social considerations.
The Group ETHICS to reflect our ambitions for representation is a world leader in several key environmental The Group culture is one of openness, ofwomen and international leaders at technologies and has a reputation for integrity and accountability.
Halma requires alllevels in our Group.
honesty and integrity in its relationships itsemployees to act fairly in their dealings withemployees, customers, business with fellow employees, customers, suppliers Halma believes that the diversity of our staff partners and shareholders.
Halma introduced isa significant contributor to our success aCode of Conduct in 2011 12 which Social conditions can be improved for all andhas identified two specific areas for applies toall Group company employees through the creation of wealth.
Halma creates improvement in Halmas organisation, and our external business relationships.
wealth responsibly allowing our employees, particularly at managerial levels: We require suppliers to be of high quality customers, business partners and and to operate to accepted international 1 Geographic diversity each board to shareholders to determine where this standards.
Halma operates a confidential include at least one member whose wealthis best distributed.
whistleblowing policy, which was refreshed nationality is other than US, UK or and republished in 2015.
For Emerging Market HUMAN RIGHTS provider enables employees to raise any headquartered companies, this becomes Halmas Human Rights and Labour concerns they may have in confidence and, reversed and the goal is to have at least Conditions Policy reflects thecore if they wish, anonymously.
one member whose nationality is of the requirements of the Universal Declaration of US, UK or Europe.
Human Rightsandthe ILO Declaration on Halma has a zero-tolerance policy on Fundamental Principles and Rightsat Work, briberyand corruption which extends 2 Gender diversity to have at least 30% including the conventions relating to forced toallbusiness dealings and transactions female executives on operating company labour, child labour, non-discrimination, inwhich we are involved.
This includes a boards by the end of our 2019 financial year.
freedom of association and right to collective prohibition onmaking political donations, bargaining.
We do not tolerate practices offering or receiving inappropriate gifts DISABLED EMPLOYEES which contravene these international or making unduepayments toinfluence Applications for employment by disabled standards.
Regulatory demands upon the outcome ofbusiness dealings.
Our people are always fully considered, bearing usvary considerably around the world, robust policy andguidance in this area inmind the aptitudes of the applicant soHalma establishes the core structure to is routinelyreviewed and compliance concerned.
In the event of members of ensure that Group companies fully comply with the policy is checked as part of the staff becoming disabled, every effort will with legislative and regulatory requirements half-year and year-end process.
be made to ensure that their employment while permitting them to tailor their approach with the Group continues and that to their particular needs.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled people should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53
