Sector Review Environmental & Analysis Products and technologies for analysis in safety, life sciences and environmental markets.
Market-leading opto-electronic technology and gas conditioning products.
Products to monitor water networks, UV technology for disinfecting water and water quality testing products.
Chuck Dubois Sector Chief Executive, Environmental & Analysis Performance Group KPIs 2016 target 1 Revenue growth 14.9% 1 Organic revenue growth constant currency 11.4% 5% 1 Profit growth 26.0% 1 Organic profit growth constant currency 21.5% 5% 2 Return on Sales 18.3% 18% 3 R&D % of Revenue 6.6% 4% The Environmental & Analysis sector achieved record revenue and profit.
Contribution to Group There was strong growth in emerging markets, in particular China and India.
Our water network monitoring companies m 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 benefited from the new five-year investment cycle in the UK Revenue 189 164 167 152 154 water industry.
Renewed international emphasis on climate change is strengthening the position of our environmental Profit 34 27 32 30 32 applications.
1 4 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the The contribution to growth from new products continues to equivalent prior year figures.
2 4 rise, specifically for our photonics businesses, and places Return on Sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
usin a strong position for sustained growth in the future.
3 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items see note 1 to the Accounts.
Revenue % of Group Profit % of Group MARKET TRENDS AND GROWTH DRIVERS 23% 19% Our products protect and analyse the air we breathe, the water we drink and the food we eat.
They enable the development and manufacture of new products that improve our health and well-being.
The Environmental & Analysis sector long-term growth is sustained by four key drivers: increasing demand for life-critical resources such as energy and water increasing environmental monitoring and regulations scientific advances transferring into new industries worldwide population ageing and increasing standards of living According to the United Nations, by 2030 demand for water may be 40% higher than supply.
By 2050 water shortages are expected to affect over 50%of the global population due to increasing water usage by agriculture, manufacturing, domestic usage and energy production.
Energy production is water-intensive and, with the worlds population expected to reach 8 billion by 2025, an ever stronger emphasis is placed on energy management and efficiency.
Our diversification in energy monitoring and building management systems, and continued efforts in water conservation technologies capture growth from these trends.
40 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Today 1.8 billion people drink faecallyFood contamination scandals throughout This was a strong year for our photonics contaminated water and an even greater theworld are rising.
R&D projects created number drink water that is unsanitary.
Our emerging markets are tightening food opportunities in existing and new markets, water testing kits help protect an increasing qualityregulations and the Food Safety geographies and applications.
As increasing number of people in remote areas.
Modernization Act is beginning to have numbers of industrial processes need more an impact in the USA.
Opportunities for sophisticated measurement devices, we The UN Climate Change Conference in Paris our spectroscopy applications in the food have been able to capture substantial growth.
in 2015 reiterated the efforts to limit global safety market are appearing globally.
warming, and reach carbon neutrality in the China provided substantial growth for our India is a key market for our light second part of the 21st century.
The EU is water business, as we developed test kits measurement equipment, where our targeting a 40% emission reduction by 2030 specific to new environmental regulations.
technology is used to calibrate scientific compared to 1990 levels.
This will multiply The return of business in the Middle East, instruments for remote sensing.
We expect theopportunities for our environmental along with the start of the new AMP five-year this to continue to grow in the coming year monitoring and analysis products.
capital investment cycle in the UK, drove asgovernmental spending grows.
growth at our water monitoring businesses.
Rapid urbanisation particularly affects air pollution.
An estimated 80% of global Our water network monitoring companies Continuing emerging market growth created greenhouse gas emissions are derived from arebenefiting from the new five-year a favourable environment for rising sales cities, where 50% of the population being investment cycle in the UK water industry, atour gas conditioning businesses where monitored is exposed to air pollution that while diversification into energy distribution new products penetrated growth markets isatleast 2.5 times higher than the WHO monitoring is a growing niche for sales of inChina and India and increased developed recommended levels.
Our mass flow their sensors and data loggers.
metersare used to calibrate pollution Demand for water quality testing by NGOs, OUTLOOK monitoring equipment.
particularly in Africa and South America, Externally, global population growth, continues to grow.
Implementation of water In China only 9% of the 190 largest cities population ageing and increasing standards safety regulations in China is also fuelling meet the National Ambient Air Quality of living are driving demand for basic energy growth for our water quality test kits.
Our new gas conditioning resources, cleaner air, safer water and food equipment is suitable to measure the and healthcare spending.
Our products and STRATEGY finestparticles which are believed to companies are well positioned to continue Environmental & Analysis growth strategy bethegreatest risk to health.
totake advantage of these long-term centres on market-led new product growthdrivers.
R&D investment continues to generate development, geographic expansion and opportunities in adjacent and new markets.
We are strengthening our acquisition pipeline, Increasing demand for calibration and and we expect to add complementary R&D is focused on applications with qualitycontrol sensors is a strong driver businesses in the coming years.
long-term drivers and defensible positions.
forour technologies in food processing, Our businesses have increased marketing pharmaceuticals and agriculture.
Increasing spend toensure that new products fulfil adoption of cloud computing and extension specific market needs.
of digital communications into new areas boosts demand for our technologies that We continue to invest in hiring high calibre enhance data communication.
As the sector expands in emerging markets, products to Rising concerns about food safety are meet regional customer need and local creating opportunities in both developed manufacture continues to increase.
Our businesses share knowledge and have By 2030, 150 million more city dwellers will a strong pipeline of joint development projects.
be65 or older, increasing the share of the Several businesses re-sell other sector population at higher risk from contamination companies products, and there are many of food and water.
active joint sales and marketing projects.
GEOGRAPHIC TRENDS Acquisitions are integral to our sector growth The Environmental & Analysis sector sells into strategy andweexpect this to be a key part diverse market niches.
The modest growth of ourgrowthstory in the future.
rates of the developed economies are being exceeded by, and at a more accelerated PERFORMANCE pace in, emerging economies.
The Environmental & Analysis sector grew revenue by 15% to 189m 2015: 164m Sales in emerging markets continue to grow and profit by 26% to 34m 2015: 27m.
strongly, reaching 30% of sector revenue.
At constant currency, organic revenue Developing world economic growth is growth was 11% and organic profit growth drivingprofound transformations, raising was 21%.
Return on Sales improved to expectations for cleaner air, purer water and 18.3% 2015: 16.7% and was back safer food.
Chinas environmental concerns aboveGroup target.
are driving strong sales in environmental monitoring water testing, building on expanded R&D and manufacturing.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41
