Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures In accordance with the EU Transparency Directive The Board monitors the Companys trading 2004 109 EC, as amended, the Company activity on a regular basis.
published two Interim Management Statements, The Company reports formally to shareholders once during the first and once during the second twice a year.
In addition, current information is half of each financial year.
These provided an provided to shareholders on an ongoing basis overview of the important events and transacthrough the Companys website and monthly tions that have taken place during the relevant newsletters.
Shareholders may contact the period.
The Company published its Interim directors through the Company Secretary.
Management Statement covering the period from 1 February 2015 to 17 June 2015 on SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS 18 June 2015, and its Interim Management As of 16 May 2016, insofar as is known to the Statement covering the period from 1 August Company, the following shareholders were 2015 to 24 November 2015 on 25 November interested, directly or indirectly, in 5% or more 2015.
All Interim Management Statements of the total issued Ordinary Shares: are available on the Companys website.
% of Total % of Total The last traded price of Ordinary shares is Shares Shares May 2016 May 2015 available on Reuters, Bloomberg, the London Stock Exchange, and Euronext Amsterdam.
State Teachers Retirement 13.57 13.57 System of Ohio A copy of the original Prospectus of the Blackrock Inc. 13.15 11.18 Company is available from the Companys Washington State Investment Board 11.11 11.68 registered office and on the Companys website.
Retirement Board of the 6.16 6.16 All Ordinary shares may be dealt in directly Policemens Annuity & Benefit Fund, through a stockbroker or professional adviser City of Chicago acting on an investors behalf.
The buying Prudential Portfolio 6.08 0.00 Management Group and selling of Ordinary shares may be settled through Euroclear or CREST.
Lothian Pension Fund 5.72 5.72 Old Mutual Global Investors UK Ltd. 5.24 4.90 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS TOTAL 61.03% 53.21% The Board recognises that it is important The Company is not aware of any changes to maintain appropriate contact with major to these substantial shareholdings between shareholders to understand their issues and 6 May 2016 and the date of signature of the concerns.
Members of the Board have had Audited Financial Statements.
the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders, and the Board accesses major CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY shareholders views of the Company via, The Board of the Company considers the among other things, direct face-to-face ongoing interests of investors on the basis of contact and analyst and broker briefings.
open and regular dialogue with the Investment In addition, the Investment Manager maintains Manager.
The Board receives regular updates dialogue with institutional shareholders, the outlining regulatory and statutory developments feedback from which is reported to the Board.
The Company has also appointed J. P. Morgan Cazenove and Jefferies Hoare Govett as its joint corporate brokers to enhance communications with shareholders.
Scott Harris and Edison have both been engaged to both report on and to liaise with shareholders.
In addition, Scott Harris also arrange shareholder meetings for the Investment Manager.
