HARGREAVES LANSDOWN STRATEGIC REPORT 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT HARGREAVES LANSDOWN, WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY IS A POSITIVE ONE.
OUR COMPANY VALUES ARE ROOTED IN PROVIDING GREAT SERVICE AT GREAT VALUE.
WE BELIEVE THAT DOING THE RIGHT THING MAKES GREAT BUSINESS SENSE.
FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT WWW.
OUR CULTURE TONNES C0 e PER EMPLOYEE PER YEAR 2 We have worked hard to create what we Hargreaves Lansdown believe to be a unique working culture at Hargreaves Lansdown.
0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 Minimum Excluding HL Average Maximum Putting clients first: At Hargreaves Lansdown there is an embedded culture whereby the interests ENVIRONMENT of clients are always put first and this openly and honestly.
This is achieved through is communicated to all employees in our policy of putting clients first.
All staff are As a service business that does not own the business during their induction and trained and made fully aware of anti-money its business premises and is fundamentally throughout their careers.
In practice this laundering procedures which must be based on intellectual capital, Hargreaves includes elements such as ensuring that: adhered to at all times.
The Company takes Lansdown has a limited direct impact on the views of its employees very seriously and the environment.
Nevertheless the Group all product design and information is clear as such operates a Whistleblowing Policy with any concerns raised about malpractice continues to promote energy efficiency and understandable or wrongdoing within the workplace being and the avoidance of waste throughout its information and client support is available treated with the utmost confidence and operations.
to clients after the point of sale in full compliance with the Public Interest appropriate complaints handling Disclosure Act.
Three years ago we commissioned a report procedures are in place to investigate our output of greenhouse financial promotion and marketing Efficiency: We believe that costs require gas emissions and reductive measures we practices are unbiased and appropriate for constant consideration and have built an could undertake for more information visit their audience ethos of employees continually asking www.
As part of this report themselves whether their actions are cost Hargreaves Lansdown was compared to To ensure we are getting things right with effective and efficient.
FTSE 100 companies in the same sector and clients, we listen to them about the changes this comparison has been updated in the they would like to see to our services and We are committed to managing the chart above.
The results demonstrate the we encourage and actively seek feedback environmental impact of our operations, relatively low impact our business has on the from clients.
If clients ever feel the need treating our employees well and maintaining environment.
to complain, our complaints handling a great culture and working environment.
Our team carefully investigates our clients approach to corporate social responsibility This low impact on the environment has complaint and endeavours to provide includes these key elements: not stopped us from enacting initiatives to them with a fair resolution.
We benchmark continue reducing our environmental impact.
our performance in treating clients fairly Quality: We want to offer the best products against statistics published annually by and offer an excellent service, and are always Environmental initiatives: Our objective the Financial Ombudsman Service for the looking for ways to improve of reducing waste and minimising the industry.
The results for the 2016 financial environmental impact of our business is year compared to the last figures published Sustainability: We work for the long-term, aligned with our objectives of protecting by the Ombudsman show that Hargreaves looking beyond immediate success client data, reducing costs, and improving Lansdown is achieving good results in efficiency.
It is our aim to deal with clients treating our clients fairly.
Integrity: We deal with people openly and and other businesses electronically wherever honestly, building strong relationships possible not only to speed up information Integrity: The Company prides itself on its transfer but also to reduce the amount of integrity in dealing with clients and staff HARGREAVES LANSDOWN STRATEGIC REPORT 41 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 THE GREAT HL BAKE-OFF WINNER EMILY BUTLER WITH IAN GORHAM AND CAROLINE BOOTH-MORRIS FROM ST PETERS HOSPICE 30 June 30 June 2016 2015 Vantage clients registered as paperless 73% 71% Vantage client equity deals placed online 98% 97% Clients registered to use our online services 88% 88% Hargreaves Lansdown has continued to be included in the FTSE4Good Index series, having been independently paper we use.
We have invested heavily in face meeting is not required.
We also provide assessed according to the FTSE4Good providing a user-friendly, comprehensive a secure bike park at our office enabling up to criteria.
The FTSE4Good index measures website and automated links to banks and 150 staff to cycle to work.
the performance of companies that meet fund providers.
The benefits will grow as globally recognised standards on corporate more people and businesses choose to Recycling: We continue to shred and recycle social responsibility.
transact business and receive information confidential waste and have arrangements online.
We aim to increase the take-up of for the collection of recyclable waste such as online and paperless services, and have been printer toner cartridges, cardboard, plastics, successful in doing this during the year.
We also continue to recycle redundant IT Business travel and commuting: We do equipment through specialist third parties.
not provide company cars to managers or to our network of advisers.
These advisers are Electricity usage: Our electricity usage spread throughout the UK which minimises is not high enough to mean that we have travel time and carbon emissions.
We provide to participate in Phase 2 of the Carbon a telephone advice service where a face-toReduction Commitment CRC Energy HARGREAVES LANSDOWN STRATEGIC REPORT 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 INVESCO PERPETUAL LAKES CHALLENGE Global GHG emissions data for period 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2016 unaudited Tonnes of CO e 2 15,000 Emissions from: Current Comparison year Change % AMOUNT RAISED reporting year 2014-2015 2015-2016 BY INDIVIDUALS FROM HARGREAVES Combustion of fuel and operation 400.8 354.2 13% of facilities LANSDOWN WHO COMPETED IN THE Electricity, heat, steam and 1,673.4 1,627.0 3% cooling purchased for own use INVESCO PERPETUAL LAKES CHALLENGE Tonnes of CO e per average full- 2.14 2.18 -2% 2 time equivalent employee Efficiency Scheme.
This scheme is compulsory emissions and benchmark us against other for UK organisations that consumed over firms in our sector.
The report was positive 6,000 MWh of half-hourly metered electricity and reinforced our belief that we were already for the period 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013. making good progress towards being resource During that period we consumed well below efficient.
For the year ending 2016 our use that level and for the year ended 30 June of refrigerant gases and fuel consumed per 2016 we had consumed only 4,061 MWh employee increased by 6% 2015: 44% 2015: 3,520 MWh.
rise while our electricity use per employee decreased by 3% 2015: 0% compared to the Greenhouse gas emissions: In 2013 we previous year.
The increase in electricity use engaged a consultant to assess our carbon was driven by the occupation of additional HARGREAVES LANSDOWN STRATEGIC REPORT 43 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 September of last year.
This is a challenging Corporation tax and employers national floor space, and additional computing power, in event, facilitating team bonding whilst insurance paid in respect of the year ended our head office.
raising money for the Youth Adventure 30 June 2016 was 47.6 million 2015: 46.4 Trust, which aims to provide outdoor million.
In addition we pay other taxes such Methodology: We have reported on all of adventure programmes for youths in order as VAT, stamp duty and business rates.
the emission sources required under the to help give them hope, confidence and life Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report skills to meet the challenges in their lives.
Campaigning: The Company also actively and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 seeks to lobby via public consultation which fall within our consolidated financial The Group also makes significant tax documents where they believe that investors statements.
We do not have responsibility for payments which help society as a whole.
any emission sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised and emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2016.
Launching the Hargreaves Lansdown Foundation and Volunteer Scheme On the 1 September 2016 the Company launched the Hargreaves Lansdown Charitable Foundation COMMUNITY the Foundation.
This will move the Groups focus away from one nominated charity per year to between four and eight employee nominated charities.
The Foundation is a charitable incorporated With the exceptions described below, we have organisation set up through an independent solicitor and is a registered charity.
It focuses on supmade it Company policy to focus our support porting four key areas which include The next generation e. g. mentoring programmes, youth groups, and fundraising activities on one charity or financial and other education, Well-being e. g. health and sport, Improving Lives e. g. disadvantaged non-profit organisation each year which is children, injured servicemen and women and finally Communities which includes local projects.
selected from suggestions received from employees within the Group.
We do not make The following charities, as nominated by the Companys employees, will be supported by the HL political donations.
During 2016 the chosen Charitable Foundation for the next three years: charity was the St Peters Hospice.
St Peters Hospice is a Bristol charity caring for adults Next Generation with life-limiting illnesses.
They aim to improve The Princes Trust the quality of their living and dying while Youth Adventure Trust extending care and support to their families and loved ones.
They do this by providing physical, psychological and spiritual care for Well-being patients in their own homes as well as at the Cancer Research UK Hospice.
They also teach other healthcare professionals about how to care for people at the end of their lives.
IMPROVING LIVES Charitable activity outside of our chosen Guide Dogs for the Blind charity for the year The Group supports a grass-roots sports club.
A monthly donation is made to the Bristol & West Athletics Club which is Communities the leading all-round athletics club in the Great Western Air Ambulance South West of England.
As in previous years we have continued to support the Bristol Childrens Hospital Grand Appeal and we were proud The Foundation aims to provide a centralised focus for fund raising efforts, improve support and sponsors of a Shaun the Sheep and have increase the money raised for charitable causes and improve links with our local communities been actively raising awareness of the and national charitable groups.
All of the legal and administration costs will be met by the appeal.
Company so 100% of the money raised will go to the employee nominated charities.
The day to We have again supported teams of staff day running of the Foundation will be by Hargreaves Lansdown volunteers.
More details can be from Hargreaves Lansdown who competed found on the website www.
in the Invesco Perpetual Lakes Challenge in
