HARGREAVES LANSDOWN STRATEGIC REPORT 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 WE ARE COMMITTED TO RECRUITING AND OUR PEOPLE RETAINING TALENTED PEOPLE WHO PUT OUR CLIENTS AT THE HEART OF OUR BUSINESS.
an individual performance related basis PEOPLE BEHIND THE PLAN business we need to make the most of the identified via a performance appraisal system.
potential of our people whoever they are.
To encourage employees to share in the Our people are at the heart of Hargreaves We have Human Resource policies in place success of our business we offer immediate Lansdown, bringing our values to life and to attract a diverse workforce and once entry into our SAYE scheme and over 40% of putting our strategy into action to be working with us our people can expect to eligible employees joined the 2016 scheme.
the UKs number one choice for savings develop in an environment that is free from and investments.
To create value for our discrimination or harassment.
To complement the direct financial rewards shareholders we must engage employees we provide pension contributions and in our strategic plan and ensure we have We give full consideration to applications for life cover.
From January 2017 we are the right people with the right skills and employment from disabled persons, where introducing new benefits including health experience to drive our growth ambitions.
the candidates aptitudes and abilities are checks, extended holiday entitlements, consistent with meeting the requirements of medical health cover and health cash plans.
Hargreaves Lansdown provides a dynamic the job.
If members of staff become disabled Employees can also extend their benefit and friendly working environment for around the Group continues employment, either selections in line with personal preferences 1,000 employees mostly located at our office in the same or an alternative position, with to include such benefits as the government in Bristol.
We believe that our people should appropriate retraining being given if necessary.
be proud of what they achieve together, with A full assessment of any disabled employees a strong sense of belonging to Hargreaves needs is undertaken and reasonable Lansdown and know that we recognise the adjustments are made to the work environment or practices in order to assist them.
ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE crucial role that our employees play in our success.
It is crucial that our people understand A PREMIER DESTINATION FOR our priorities and are engaged in the TALENTED PEOPLE development of our business.
Hargreaves DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY Lansdown actively encourages employee To attract and retain the right people we offer involvement and consultation and places We are committed to maintaining a diverse a competitive reward package which includes emphasis on keeping its employees informed workforce at all levels and believe that independently benchmarked pay and of the Companys activities, macroeconomic diversity is a broad issue encompassing benefits.
We believe that working together conditions, regulatory issues and financial variations in experience, skills, age and as a team is the key to our success and so to performance by such means as six-monthly background as well as more traditional complement our salary structure we include presentations given by the Chief Executive, diversity factors such as ethnic origin and over 85% of our employees in a Group bonus the employee intranet and publication to all gender.
Commercially and for best practice scheme, linked to the financial success of staff of relevant information and corporate reasons we are an equal opportunities Hargreaves Lansdown and distributed on announcements.
employer and believe that to succeed as a 2016 2015 Male Female Male Female 1 Company Directors 5 71% 2 29% 5 83% 1 17% 2 Other senior management 28 88% 4 12% 21 91% 2 9% Total employees 658 70% 284 30% 685 71% 285 29% Total workforce FTE 942 As at 30 June 2016 Total workforce FTE 970 As at 30 June 2015 Notes: 1.
Company Directors consists of the Companys Board as detailed on page 50 to 51.
Other senior management is defined as an employee who has responsibility for planning, direction or controlling the activities of the Company, or a strategically significant part of the Company, other than the Company Directors.
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN STRATEGIC REPORT 45 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 We believe that listening and understanding LEARNING, DEVELOPMENT AND PROGRAMMES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE our employees motivation and feedback is COMMUNICATION crucial in deciding our employee engagement In September 2016 we launch the Hargreaves programme.
This year we partnered with To continue to engage and develop our Lansdown Apprenticeship Scheme, the Hay Group to benchmark our employee people, we have introduced a range of new welcoming young people to train with us in engagement against other high performing initiatives: a Learning and Development our IT, Digital and Operational teams.
Our organisations and those in our industry.
We team, a learning curriculum, management industrial placement scheme continues to be in high demand and we have piloted a new were delighted to have a 72% response rate, qualifications and will open the Hargreaves internship for students to gain invaluable followed up with focus groups comprising Lansdown Learning Academy due for work experience in summer 2016.
We support delighted to receive external recognition for our employees in their continuing personal our graduate programme by being ranked in Over 90% of employees who completed and professional learning and development the Top 100 companies for graduates.
the survey feel proud of the quality of our and encourage attendance at external and products and services, our focus on clients internal programmes.
This year we piloted and would recommend Hargreaves Lansdown a leadership development programme for HUMAN RIGHTS to friends or relatives.
All three areas placed our senior colleagues and our Executive us between 13% and 19% ahead of the Team to encourage broader business wide As a UK based organisation with clients external benchmarks.
thinking and build the skills to develop high and employees located within the UK we performing teams.
To enhance our internal have not provided further information about In terms of work in progress we need to set communications a new team have been any policies of the company in relation to out career, training and reward structures tasked with ensuring that key leadership human rights issues since it is not considered more clearly and improve our internal messages are communicated across the necessary for an understanding of the communications.
development, performance or position of the Groups business activities.
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN STRATEGIC REPORT 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 02 GOVERNANCE HARGREAVES LANSDOWN STRATEGIC REPORT 47 ANNUAL REPORT 2016
