Corporate social responsibility continued Each colleague is responsible for Company achieving the highest level of business Community conduct and for delivering our everyday We try to minimise, where possible, activities in a way that reflects ethical With happy colleagues, satisfied principles.
We play our part by: ourimpact on the environment, customers and a profitable Group we makingsure that what we do reflects are able to take the 4Cs full circle by inviting our customers to receive all our approach to CSR.
It is our belief that taking an active part in serving our their documentation electronically: ethical conduct is an integral component communities.
We do this by being a good supporting local businesses with over of running a business successfully and neighbour, investing in local education it is an expectation we have of both 58 unique offers that encourage and initiatives and being an ethical member incentivise our colleagues to buy from our colleagues and our suppliers.
of the financial services community.
We continually look at ways to make local retailers, suppliers and services: improvements so we can continue A good neighbour promoting a Travel Green initiative to serve our communities and be a Our Charity Events Committee is that supports our colleagues in goodneighbour.
made up entirely of colleagues who making greener journeys to work volunteer toorganise fundraising through car sharing, increased cycle Strong supplier relationships are vital to events throughout the year for local use and discounted rail travel: our continued success.
We work closely charities nominated by colleagues.
dedicated recycle and confidential with our local and national suppliers to We provide a helping hand to local communicate our standards, values, waste stations: individuals or groups by providing principles and sustainability goals to advice, physical support or small grants encouraging the use of travel mugs them.
By working with our suppliers, to help with fundraising.
In 2016 we and water bottles to cut the use of we can offer the best price, product raised over 60,000 for local charities disposable cups: and service solutions to benefit our and organisations and spent over 5,200 using reduced energy electric customers and colleagues.
Aspart of our lightbulbs and motion sensitive InsurePink product offering, where 10 lighting: and from every policy is donated to a breast cancer charity Pink Ribbon Foundation, recycling unwanted furniture by we are pleased that our customers donating it to local charities and helped us raise over 72,000 forthis organisations.
A massive thank youtoeveryone at Hastings Direct for their fundraising throughout the year, raising valuable fundsand making a big difference tooursmallcharity Leah Norman Scheme Manager, Homecall Hastings Directs Programme and Change team who cycled 120 miles to raise money for Homecall.
36 Investing in local educationinitiatives We have significant interaction with schools, colleges and universities in and around our communities to Leicester Mercury help develop, attract and nurture home grown talent.
In 2016 we Hastings Direct colleagues, teaching staff andpupils completed the first year of a three atthe special event held at the CurveTheatre.
year education programme called Be the Change in Bexhill and Leicester which aims to raise the aspirations of local 1314 year olds.
The course isdesigned to help remove barriers thatmay make students disengage fromschool and in life and provide them with life skills to help shape their future.
Our colleagues volunteer as business mentors to help support the students with anecdotal and Leicester Mercury professional advice and guidance.
Hastings continues to be the only corporate organisation to sponsor a fullbespoke Be the Change programme in the UK.
I wa s a part of Be the Change last year and not only didIsee a positive change in the students, but I also saw achange within my peers and a change in confidence formyself.
It has helped me develop my career within Hastings Direct and has helped me excel in being a coachand supporting new colleagues that come intothebusiness.
Mohammed Patel Hastings Business Mentor 37
