Sustainability continued PROMOTING GOOD BUSINESS ETHICS Quality and excellence sit at the heart of Hikma, and we believe that a strong commitment to ethical values such as integrity, honesty and transparency is vital to our reputation and success.
Building trust in our people and our business creates long-term value by helping to ensure our business remains relevant and sustainable.
United Nations Global Compact UNGC Responsible business initiatives Members since 2007, we remain committed to the United World Economic Forum WEF Nations Global Compact.
We continue to support and Hikma is constantly seeking to develop and strengthen align our global operations with the ten UNGC principles, its global partnerships and initiatives to stay at the regularly reporting our alignment with the principles in forefront of advancing healthcare and human wellbeing.
the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment The WEFengages political, business and other leaders of and anti-corruption.
In 2016, we renewed our UNGC society to shape global, regional and industry agendas.
membership by submitting a Communication on Our participation with international organisations from Progress report for 2015.
Participating in the UNGCs the public and private sectors is motivated by an ambition Communication on Progress Report demonstrates to act towards advancing global welfare.
In 2016, Hikma our commitment to employees, our customers, our became one of the WEFs Health Industry Partners, with communities and patients.
As a multinational business, we the objective of exploring new and improved ways of are committed to conducting our business ethically and to developing the standard of healthcare offered to patients being an active partner in shaping a sustainable future.
As a partner, we participated in the WEF Industry Strategy Meeting which explored how to improve the level of healthcare offered to patients by global pharmaceutical and healthcare companies.
In the session, participants engaged with policy makers, focusing on industry challenges and collaborations to enhance the quality of and access to healthcare.
We also participated in the WEF Global Healthcare meetings, which engage healthcare leaders worldwide to explore and develop new solutions that move the global healthcare industry Transparency & anti-bribery and corruption forward.
Our participation in these events supports our aim to build stronger partnerships worldwide to reinforce B20 Anti-Corruption Working Group our vision of improving peoples lives around the globe.
As we continue working to promote responsible business through collective action, we joined the Business 20 B20 Anti-Corruption Working Group ACWG, which operates under the umbrella of the G20 international forum of governments.
The ACWG focuses on helping companies to improve their ethical conduct.
As part of this, Hikma co-chaired the Public Procurement Work Stream, which seeks to promote ethical practices across the governmental and private sectors, and we joined the Beneficial Ownership Team.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 42 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Partnering Against Corruption Initiative PACI The Compliance Department is developing the AntiBribery and Corruption e-learning programme to be Hikma remains a founding member of the Partnering launched in 2017.
This e-learning programme will provide Against Corruption Initiative PACI, an off-shoot of the all Board members, management and employees with WEF.
PACI is a leading business voice on anti-corruption comprehensive and interactive training on this important and transparency and is one of the WEFs strongest issue including: cross-industry collaborative efforts.
Driven by interests of member companies, PACI undertakes initiatives to Hikmas Code of Conduct address global issues in anti-corruption and compliance.
Anti-bribery and corruption compliance We renewed our commitment in 2016 for zero tolerance Introduction to ABC Compliance of corruption or bribery across any and all of Interactions with public officials our operations.
Interactions with HCPs Modern Slavery Act MSA Gifts, hospitality and entertainment Hikma is committed to ensuring that modern slavery Grants, sponsorships and donations in the form of forced or compulsory labour and human Interactions with third parties trafficking does not take place in any of its businesses or Conflicts of interest supply chains across the globe.
Key measures in support of this goal include training Hikma staff on labour Insider dealing standards and how to recognise and respond to any Speak-up incidences of modern slavery, undertaking periodic The e-learning module will initially launch in three analysis and management of any modern slavery risk languages English, Arabic and French at the beginning in Hikmas businesses or supply chains, carrying out of 2017 to employees in MENA and Europe, and will be appropriate due diligence and engaging on the issue introduced to US employees later in the year.
In addition to the e-learning module, we will also make Anti-bribery and corruption available, via a shared internal platform, the compliance policies and procedures that are essential to all employees Hikma does not tolerate corruption or bribery and it across all levels such as: applies strict processes to ensure that our employees do not participate in any form of corrupt practices.
Hikma Hikmas Code of Conduct is publicly listed on the London Stock Exchange and Anti-bribery and corruption thus abides by the UK Anti-Bribery Act 2010 and the Gifts, hospitality and entertainment Share Dealing Code and Disclosure policies.
The Code of Conduct sets the tone for all business activities, Conflict of interest ensuring an ethical approach runs across the Group.
Speak-up FTSE4Good Recognition Hikma continued to be recognised as a constituent member of the FTSE4Good index series in 2016, and we are proud to maintain our commitment to high corporate business standards and ethics.
Stakeholders such as NGOs, governmental bodies, consultants, academics and the investment community help to shape the criteria for inclusion in the indices, which include: anti-corruption, climate change, health and safety, and customer responsibility to name a few.
Our continued inclusion means our environmental, social and governance practices meet globally recognised standards.
