Sustainability continued SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES We believe we have a role to play in helping the communities in which we live and work.
This takes the form of sharing our skills, providing opportunities, and promoting health and wellbeing.
Global volunteering activities Improving health and wellbeing Since 2001, we have had a Group-wide sponsored Annual Promoting healthy lifestyles Volunteering Day to promote community service among employees and give back to our communities.
The events, In 2016, we renewed our agreement with the Royal which allow employees to donate a days work in service Health Awareness Society RHAS to support two of its to the community, took place around the world over the projects which aim to enhance the school life of students course of a week in Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Lebanon, across Jordan: The Healthy Kitchen Project, which Tunisia, Algeria, Portugal, Germany, Italy and the US.
In supports the delivery of healthy meals for school children: total, 300 employees participated in the 2016 volunteering and the Generations Project, an anti-drug and tobacco activities in collaboration with different NGOs across initiative for school children.
As part of RHAS Healthy Kitchen Project, several of our Activities included a clothing drive in Amman for those employees volunteered to distribute meals to students at in need: a cleanup of the Al-Zara area near the Dead Sea, one of our sponsored schools.
This is a continuation of a organised in co-operation with the Royal Society for the project that was launched in 2015 in collaboration with Conservation of Nature RSCN : collecting childrens shoes the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health and the in the US for orphans: collecting non-perishable food World Food Program, to provide healthy and nutritious items for Emergency Assistance Centres in Ohio: raising meals to school students.
The project seeks to raise health funds for the Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia CHOP and nutrition awareness and promote healthier eating and Unforgotten Haven, a charitable organisation patterns by disseminating comprehensive nutrition supporting the homeless: running a blood drive to information and educational resources within benefit the Lisbon Bone Marrow Centre in Portugal: school communities.
and in Egypt, organising a blanket distribution We are also now sponsoring a new RHAS project campaign for Giza villages outside Cairo.
launched in 2016 designed to protect young people in Jordan from drug and tobacco addiction.
The project focuses on providing relevant social and life skills through training programmes, and focuses on enabling children and young people to become more resilient and dissuade them from peer pressure.
The programme is adapted for middle and high schoolers and implemented through the Ministry of Education in addition to youth centres and local NGOs.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 44 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Local blood drives & heart health Charitable community engagement We conducted our annual You Are Hikma campaign Our Eatontown site in New Jersey received a special thank in 2016, a week-long initiative to provide assistance to you message from Monmouth, New Jerseys Family and our local communities.
The campaign activities included Children Services centre, for their generous donations a blood donation drive to aid the National Blood Bank in Operation Sleighbells, an annual event, which of Jordan, whom Hikma has partnered with for over a distributes gifts of new coats, hats, gloves, toys, books, decade.
In our US locations, we united with the Central gift cards and infant necessities to local children in need.
Jersey Blood Centre, for our semi-annual Have a Heart More than 500 employees adopted five families and blood drive held around Valentines Day in February.
The donated toys and gifts for 125 children.
They also raised team also partnered with the American Heart Association more than $5,000 to purchase coats, hats and gloves for the Go Red for Womens Heart Health Month, for children in need in the area.
where more than 150 colleagues fundraised for the entire month of February to support community education programmes for womens heart health.
Aiding refugees with skills and employment The crisis of refugees fleeing conflict and persecution is a global humanitarian phenomenon, and in 2016, our team in Portugal collaborated with the Portuguese Refugee Committee to put in place a programme to help train and employ refugees in Europe.
Last year we hired and trained our first programme participant, Amir Hamad, a Sudanese refugee who arrived from Egypt and is now thriving at work and reunited with his family.
Amir arrived inPortugal in 2015 and was received by the Portuguese Refugee Commission PRC which provides refugees with housing, legal and financial support for the first 12 to 18 months.
We contacted the PRC and supported this international project, and adopted Amir as an employee inside our plant.
Although there were some challenges, including a language barrier, Amir is now fully integrated and thriving within the Hikma team, and his family has successfully assimilated in Portugal.
