Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Under the location-based method, we have utilised the Disclosing and improving our UK Government and the International Energy Agency carbon emissions country-specific emission factors for electricity generation.
Performance Under the market-based method, for our European operations, we have utilised the residual mix electricity Between 2015 and 2016 we have seen an overall emission factor published by RE-DISS as we have been absolute decrease in emissions by 2.9% and a decrease unable to obtain tariff-specific emission factors from our in emissions per full time equivalent employee of 5.5%.
suppliers, and for all non-European suppliers we have This is in part due to the divestment of the Ben Venue utilised the location-based grid electricity emission factors manufacturing facility in the USduring thereporting year.
as residual emission factors have yet to be calculated outside Europe.
This approach is in line with the data Methodology hierarchy outlined in the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance.
We quantify and report our organisational greenhouse For the majority of our operations outside the United gas emissions using the WRIs Greenhouse Gas GHG States and Europe there is currently no option to purchase Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
electricity generated from renewable sources, and This year, we have reported in accordance with the GHG therefore our market-based Scope 2 figure is higher Protocols new Scope 2 Guidance, which requires that we than our location-based figure.
dual report our Scope 2 emissions using two different methodologies: the location-based method and the market-based method.
Annual Report 2016 49 Sustainability continued However, there is significant progress being made in the Assumptions and estimations renewable energy sector in the MENA region as consumer In some cases, missing information has been estimated demand is shifting to a preference for clean energy and using data from the nearest reporting period as a proxy.
governments are looking to decarbonise their economies Furthermore, due to the availability of additional data, and meet commitments set out in the United Nations we have decided to restate the 2015 emissions figures.
Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC Paris This allows us to make a more accurate performance Agreement to avoid dangerous climate change.
Therefore, in 2017, we will be engaging with our electricity suppliers to understand how we can purchase Intensity ratio cleaner energy, reduce our climate impact through our In order to express our reported emissions in relation to a purchasing power, and support the necessary shift to quantifiable factor that will act as a useful comparator for a low carbon economy.
performance analysis over time, we have chosen to adopt full time equivalent FTE employee for sites reported in Reporting boundaries and exclusions our organisational boundary as our chosen intensity metric, as it is considered that this factor both influences We consolidate our organisational boundary according our overall energy consumption and is reflective of to the operational control approach and have adopted a business growth decline.
materiality threshold of 10% for GHG reporting purposes.
This approach includes all Hikma subsidiaries and corresponding facilities assets.
Hikmas Carbon Disclosure Project 2016 CDP Joint ventures with less than 50% holding have been Hikma incorporated a water policy into its Global Climate excluded from our GHG disclosure as it is considered that Change Report, and filled out the Carbon Disclosure we do not have operational control over these emissions Project CDP water programme questionnaire to ensure sources.
In addition, non-manufacturing facilities with less the protection of the environment by monitoring, reporting than 100 staff at the end of the reporting period are not on and reducing waste emissions in water.
Hikma scored included within our emissions disclosure on the grounds Bon the CDPs water programme questionnaire this of materiality.
year, a good score in our first reporting cycle for the water programme.
This year we achieved B level for our climate change report: defined as a Management rating: where the company has assessed environmental issues, risks and implemented actions, policies and strategies to address them, in addition to providing the relevant data.
Total emissions and segmental reporting Scope 1 tC0 e Scope 2 tC0 e 2 2 Europe 3,928 Europe 5,812 USA 8,680 USA 21,266 MENA 11,506 MENA 51,201 Scope 1 Scope 2 Total emissions Total emissions 24,114 78,279 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 50
