Sustainability continued ENABLING OUR PEOPLE Employees are our most important asset andthe driving force behind our success.
At Hikma, we are committed to maintaining supportive and enriching environments in which our employees can thrive and succeed.
Professional and personal employee Women empowerment initiatives development We are proud to be an equal opportunity employer.
We aim to support and empower women in the workplace Hikma Young Professionals Excellence HYPE and strengthen their positions in society.
Programme In 2016, we conducted various activities under the At Hikma we aim to enhance the communities in umbrella of womens empowerment, including which we are located, as well as invest in the young sponsoring and participating in the Womens people within our communities.
In 2016 we created Entrepreneurship Day, MENA 2016 Conference, a programme called HYPE Hikma Young Professionals in Jordan.
Our executives took part in several panel Excellence, which is a two-year rotational programme discussions, under the topics of supporting women developed for high-potential and high-performing recent in the workplace, the importance of gender equality, graduates.
It aims to attract talented individuals and providing equal opportunities and inspiring women instill in them Hikma leadership values through a series empowerment initiatives.
of rotations in finance, operations and commercial roles.
As part of our Women Empowerment and Motivational The programme is currently being run in Jordan and the Programme, we have been holding monthly women inaugural HYPE class included seven individuals with empowerment sessions in our corporate locations, backgrounds in finance, operations, sales, regulatory entitled Dare to Dream Big, which aim to empower affairs and R&D.
In 2017 we are increasing the number and inspire our employees.
of rotations and including programme participants in the US, EU and other MENA countries.
Employee health and safety Safeguarding the health and safety of our people is integral Music classes at Hikma to our commitment to remain a responsible organisation.
As part of our ongoing efforts to contribute to the Our Health, Safety, Environment and Energy HSEE policy, wellbeing of our colleagues, employees in Jordan were which is communicated to all our people, ensures that the offered some unique opportunities to enhance their highest standards are maintained across the organisation musicality through free music lessons.
We partnered in line with industry best practices.
All our employees are with a specialist musical instruction website called rigorously trained with the highest safety and security Izif and offered lessons to anyone with an interest standards to minimise hazardous risks to the employees in exploring their musical side.
themselves as well as their surroundings.
We consider Over the course of ten weeks, participants attended our employees to be our most valuable asset and as such 90-minute weekly workshops during which they make significant efforts to ensure they are fully equipped developed their artistic skills by taking singing classes, and prepared to respond to potentially harmful situations.
piano sessions and guitar, oud or drum classes.
The Going forward, we planto enhance our measurement programme featured a combination of online and of certain health and safety indicators, enabling the offline sessions.
organisation to identify areas for potential improvement to health and safety and further optimise our processes and procedures in this regard.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 46 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Find out more Diversity To find out more about diversity across the Group, see page 94.
Innovation & Leadership Advisory Board I-LAB In April 2016, our CEO formed the Innovation & Leadership Advisory Board I-LAB, with the aim of maintaining an innovative culture across the Hikma Group and fostering younger talent.
The I-LAB is a committee of 17 employees under the age of 35, who are tasked with advising the CEO on cutting-edge technology initiatives and ideas that will introduce and encourage innovation in the workplace.
The committee meets regularly to keep our top management up-to-date with developments in digital health and proposals on how to incorporate these advancements within Hikma.
