Strategic Report 36 Corporate Responsibility We recognise that to be successful in achieving our strategy of Group learning and development strengthening our talent pipeline sustainable profitable growth it is essential that we act responsibly Alongside these management development programmes, individuals in all our businesses and towards all people who are stakeholders are encouraged to undertake appropriate specialist technical and in them: our employees, our customers and suppliers and the personal development appropriate to their roles and aspirations and communities in which we operate.
in line with organisational strategy.
The Group is committed to implementing the correct policies and To help facilitate this, Group-wide learning and development events procedures relating to the sustainability of the environment and to are held throughout the year, covering a range of topics and are the successful delivery of an effective health and safety system, as open to employees from all subsidiaries.
This enables individuals to well as ensuring that the people connected with the Group behave develop specific skills whilst simultaneously providing an opportunity in the right way, complying with all local legal and regulatory for inter-subsidiary networking.
Recent programmes have included requirements.
IT software training, lean manufacturing, time management and personal organisation, presentation skills, assertive communication Board level responsibility and sales development.
Our intention is to ensure we are developing Derek Muir, the Chief Executive, is the Director responsible for the all our people appropriately and in line with the future skill Corporate Responsibility CR performance of the Group and is requirements of our business.
supported by the operating Directors in achieving compliance with the Groups policies, primarily through: At a local level, individuals also undertake specialist technical skills development, pertinent to their roles including qualifications in Communication across the businesses: health and safety, project management, finance and accountancy, construction and engineering.
Implementation of supporting principles: and Engagement and opportunity is also provided through: Monitoring performance and improvements.
Offering share ownership within the Group through the Our operating Directors are supported in this by the Groups employee Sharesave Schemes, which currently have circa 700 employees, who are encouraged to contribute positively to the employees participating: communities and environment in which we do business.
Support with education, leading to recognised professional and Our people academic qualifications: The Group recognises the need for successful businesses to deliver a good service and product and this can only be done by Health and safety training: developing, supporting and maintaining the right staff to provide this.
Appropriate resources and support to maintain the required Anti-bribery, international competition, Modern Slavery and the standards of performance and conduct expected of employees are Groups Code of Business Conduct CBC training: provided.
This is only achieved through the provision of training and Opportunities to enhance individual knowledge and skill required career development opportunities, promoting a forward thinking, for the employees position, which includes new procedures and proactive and creative working environment to engage and motivate policies: and employees.
Investing in our people development framework helps ensure we create a skilled and motivated workforce that will Communication through the Groups website and intranet site.
positively impact on our future success.
Diversity and inclusion Succession planning and talent management The Group is committed to equal opportunities and fairness and In 2015 we commenced and during 2016 we have continued to policies, practices and regulations for promotion of equal our Succession Planning and Talent Management programme for opportunities in recruitment, training and career development.
As the managers across all subsidiaries, to nurture the talent within the Group has a global presence, these are appropriate for the local areas Group and ensure we are retaining and developing our leaders of of operation.
This includes a no tolerance approach to discrimination, the future.
This involves drawing up Personal Development Plans bullying and harassment.
All our policies promote the principles for individuals with potential for senior roles.
We have a number of fairness and equal opportunities and if these are not followed, of management and leadership programmes in place to aid this employees can use the whistleblowing hotline to report adverse initiative an executive level development programme, a senior behaviours.
management leadership programme and a general management The current policy on diversity can be found on the CR section of the development programme.
All these programmes additionally enable website.
our managers to undertake internationally recognised management qualifications as part of their studies.
These management As at 31 December 2016, the Group-wide split of male and female programmes are underpinned by Group-wide programmes at employees is shown in the charts opposite.
supervisory and team leader level.
Our aim is to continually develop our Group leadership and management capabilities across all levels of the organisation, enabling all our managers to effectively motivate and co-ordinate their teams in their business.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 37 Behaving correctly The Group is committed to conducting its business activities responsibly, ethically and in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable to the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Number of PLC Board The Board has introduced training and education programmes for Directors: employees, relating to compliance including export controls and Male & Female split economic sanctions and competition antitrust legislation.
Our CBC sets down the guidelines by which we expect our business to be Male 5 conducted and this is supported by a set of global policies issued Female 1 through the Group intranet and internal communications.
The CBC presides over areas such as health and safety, fair honest and ethical business practice, gifts and entertainment, conducting international business, protection of individuals, resources and assets and at a high level summarises the Groups legal and compliance responsibilities in areas such as anti-bribery and corruption, export laws and regulations and international fair and open competition.
The CBC also extends to the handling and minimisation of conflicts of interest and the protection of the Groups valuable intellectual Number of other property rights.
Directors: The Groups written policy states that if any employee has reasonable Male & Female split grounds to believe that the Groups CBC policy or internal Group policy is not being adhered to by any person or group of people, Male 74 he or she is able to contact Senior Management, the Group Risk & Compliance Counsel or, if necessary, the Group Company Secretary Female 4 or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Should individuals wish to raise concerns anonymously they are able to do so via a compliance hotline and email facility the Reporting System.
The Reporting System is operated in conjunction with a whistleblowing policy annually approved by the Audit Committee.
The policy gives assurance that issues will be investigated and resolved in accordance with the principles of the CBC.
The CBC is designed to ensure that as a Group, all subsidiary companies act ethically, honestly, with integrity and in a legally Number of senior compliant manner, in their business activities and applies to everyone managers in the Group: who is engaged by the Group anywhere in the world, whether they are employees or third parties.
Consequently, as part of the Male & Female split CBC the Group has implemented a set of procurement standards, which seeks to ensure that the Group and its subsidiaries mitigate any risk stemming from its supply chain and is able to leverage the Male 164 economies of scale a group of its size, composition and structure can Female 22 hope to expect.
The CBC is not designed to supersede detailed Group policies but rather to supplement and summarise the Groups compliance initiatives, its behavioural and ethical standards, as well as to give the relevant assurances in respect of the Groups key corporate, legal and social responsibilities.
As in previous years, each business is required to certify its compliance with the policies issued by the Group during the year and in particular with the CBC.
Total number of employees in the Group: Male & Female split Male 3,774 Female 354 www.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 38 Case Study Asset break new ground in creation of new ecological market town Asset International Limited Asset, the worlds leading One of the fundamental considerations of any new development is manufacturer of Weholite large diameter plastic pipes, provided the management of the sites foul water.
Using the standard Sewers vital sewerage system components to the developers of Sherford, for Adoption discharge figure of 4,000 litres per dwelling day for an ambitious  and modern market town 5,500 dwellings gives a typical discharge rate of 254 litres per second.
development in South Hams in Devon.
In order to efficiently manage the vast quantities of foul water flowing through the site once the development is populated, Asset 2 Sherford will have 5,500 homes, four schools and over 80,000m of were commissioned to provide a back-up storage tank for Sherfords employment and retail space when completed and is located 28 foul water pumping station.
The vast 3.5 metre diameter 30 metre miles to the east of Plymouth, equidistant from Dartmoor and the long, multi-leg Weholite attenuation tank utilises 170 metres of south Devon coast.
3 pipes, and holds approximately 1,500m of foul water.
It is the aspiration of the developers that Sherford will be viewed in The Weholite tank is much larger than its more standard sized years to come as one of the West Countrys most admired market 3 counterparts, which usually hold around 200m, and connects towns: one that has the feeling of being centuries in the making, but directly to the towns foul water pumping station.
The tank was developed with responsible 21st century practices in mind, including designed and made to the specific requirements of Fred Champion affordable housing and the implementation of renewable energy.
Groundworks, who were responsible for developing the infrastructure for the sites sewerage needs.
Green practices are very much in the focus for the developers, who claimed that Sherford will be the most green and sustainable new The tank was designed and supplied with an integral dry weather town in the country, conceived with a minimised carbon footprint in flow channel to meet the specific requirements set by South West mind.
All the houses are designed to be energy-efficient, and much of Water.
The dry weather flow channel is uniquely designed to improve the energy will be provided by two wind turbines on site.
the hydraulic efficiency of the tank in low flow conditions, helping to avoid silting.
Ecologically friendly good practice has been extended to the procurement processes on site, with many of the suppliers chosen The offline attenuation tank was prefabricated at Assets state of the committed to the green agenda, something that Asset place a heavy art factory in Newport, and transported to the site in Devon in one emphasis on.
The companys green ethos is exemplified by the fact piece prior to installation, vastly cutting down on the amount of time that the production and installation of their signature large diameter spent positioning the tank in situ: a huge bonus to the contractors plastic pipes has been proven to have a significantly reduced carbon who are observing stringent timescales.
footprint compared with other alternatives on the market, including concrete.
Find out more about the company at www.
co. uk Strategic Report 39 Human rights The Group is committed to treating all people, whether employed directly by the Group or its subsidiaries or employed in its supply chain fairly and equitably and we are committed to upholding their human rights.
The Group recognises all individuals basic human rights and is committed to respecting the Universal Declaration for Human Rights in the design of diversity practice and its ethical approach to employees, suppliers and customers.
The Group and all its worldwide subsidiaries respect the human rights of all those working for or with us, and of the people in the communities where we operate.
We will not knowingly do business with companies, organisations or individuals that we believe are not working to at least basic human rights standards.
Our Group companies will also comply with all applicable wage and working-time laws and other laws or regulations affecting the employer employee relationship and the workplace.
We oppose the exploitation of all workers, particularly children and young people and we will not tolerate forced labour, or labour which involves physical, verbal or psychological harassment or intimidation of any kind and we will not employ child labour in any of our operations.
Nor will we permit the exploitation of, or discrimination against, any vulnerable group.
We support fair and reasonable rewards for workers, with wages reflecting local norms and they must meet or exceed any legal minimum wage levels.
The Board is committed to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and has supported the implementation of a number of policies and initiatives during 2016 to supplement the Groups existing compliance controls in respect of anti-slavery and human trafficking.
The Group has adopted a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery and human trafficking and, in conjunction with strengthening our supplier due diligence activities and human resources procedures, has undertaken an initial risk assessment of its exposure to modern slavery and also delivered training to the Board and Groups senior management teams in this area.
The Group is also committed to maintaining a safe and productive environment, free from harassment in which all individuals are treated with respect and dignity and we expect all our employees and individuals that work on our sites to follow our health and safety policies and procedures and be free from substance abuse at all times.
Regulatory compliance The Group deploys an Anti-Bribery & Corruption Programme which includes policies, training and due diligence of all third parties with whom the Group engages.
The provision and receipt of gifts and entertainment is tolerated within considered parameters which align with the Groups legal obligations.
Procedures and controls are deployed to monitor such activity across the Group.
The Group benefits from a Competition Law compliance programme which includes a manual, on-line training and auditing via simulated dawn raids, to which the whole Group is subject.
The programme is based on requirements of UK law with local variations applied to non-UK businesses.
The Group continues to operate a Sanctioned Countries Policy in line with its legal and financial obligations using restricted party screening software.
Additional protocols have also been provided to certain subsidiaries to ensure they meet all international obligations when trading in sensitive geographical areas.
Procurement controls The Group is further developing its procurement systems to enhance and embed best practices in purchasing activity and during the year looked at how the Modern Slavery Act impacted upon its supply chain.
Health and safety The Group remains firmly committed to ensuring a safe working environment and continues to maintain a system of control and monitoring for health and safety risks.
Sites continue to work alongside our external health and safety consultant to assist the Group in achieving its objectives around health and safety.
Our systems for controlling occupational health and safety risks continue to be focussed on third-party support including a programme of external audits, a compliance based software solution and in the UK, quarterly Safety Forum meetings.
Our third-party consultant has continued to audit our sites and tracks overall performance.
This is also supported by an internal self-assessment completed by a nominated subsidiary director in each business.
The UK Safety Forums are attended by dedicated health and safety representatives for each site, which ensures that best practice is shared, that there is discussion on practical solutions to common issues and that generally there is a high level of communication across the sites.
The Safety Cloud compliance tool continues to assist in the reporting of incidents, tracking of actions from third party audits, close out of safety related inspections audits and sharing of information through the dissemination of safety alerts and bulletins.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 40 Corporate Responsibility continued Summary of health and safety objectives for 2016 Introduction of a safety culture assessment tool to Safety culture was formally assessed across our UK sites in 2016.
Over enable a more positive measure of health and safety two-thirds of staff returned a survey which has helped each business to prioritise performance across our operations.
Collation of the data its objectives for the next year.
This culture tool will now be rolled out to overseas to enable local initiatives and improvements plans to be sites.
The continuation of the external audit programme, For UK sites, 2016 has seen the best performance to date with an improvement with current scores to be maintained or improved, as on previous years.
Overseas sites continue to address the actions arising from the appropriate.
audits and are also making steady and encouraging improvements.
A drive to encourage better reporting of near misses and Through the Safety Forum and online reporting via Safety Cloud, sites have been non-injury related events and initiatives which recognise encouraged to be more open about incident reporting.
This has led to a better employees who go above and beyond normal safe understanding and more accurate reporting of injuries.
Near miss reporting is also practices.
A review of the way accident data is collated to provide a Injury data in still based on numbers of reports across the organisation and work more meaningful measure based on employment rate.
is ongoing to try to streamline comparative data, which varies in its baseline measure across our global operations.
The Group companies work actively to effectively manage health and safety, evidenced by the following initiatives: Ongoing attainment of OHSAS 18001 certification by Hill & Smith Ltd, Variable Message Signs, Mallatite Ltd, France Galva, Asset Varioguard VRS and Joseph Ash Galvanizing Limited.
Newly certified sites to OHSAS 18001 including other Joseph Ash Galvanizing Limited sites and Asset International Limited, with several others following up with their initial OHSAS assessments which will be completed in 2017.
Joseph Ash Galvanizing Limited once again received a RoSPA Gold Medal in recognition of their safety performance and involvement of the workforce.
A number of subsidiaries continued to maintain their Achillies supplier HSE accreditation, which is a national registration scheme allowing companies to be assessed to work in the infrastructure sector.
Creative Pultrusions fully reviewed their induction training and rolled out a new programme to all existing and new employees.
This has helped to raise the profile of both quality and safety across the site.
Recognising that the social use of drugs and alcohol could potentially have an impact of how workers behave and react in the workplace, several subsidiaries have rolled out initiatives to raise awareness of such issues and have also introduced random monitoring.
Asset International Limited have continued to invest in automated machinery for pipe fabrication which has further reduced exposure levels for hand arm vibration.
Workers have been actively involved in the trials of personal monitoring devices which helps them to ensure they are fully aware of personal trigger times and are therefore able to react accordingly.
2 Lionweld Kennedy Flooring Ltd t a Access Design & Engineering provided the design, fabrication, supply and installation of 1,225m of GRP flooring and all steel handrails and stairs around the perimeter of the Siemens Berth 1 project on the north side of the Humber near Hull.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 41 Other progress in 2016 Safety Culture The safety culture assessment completed across our UK sites showed that, as a Group, we are performing above the industry standard from benchmark data collated by the Health and Safety Laboratory.
The survey has been useful to identify workers perceptions of health and safety and how we deal with it across eight key themes.
With two-thirds of the surveys being returned, we were pleased with such a high uptake which was supported by an effective publicity and promotional campaign before the surveys were commenced.
The findings of the survey will help sites to identify key initiatives to improve safety culture across the forthcoming months and years.
Recognising that cultural change can be slow, this initial survey is vital in our goal of demonstrating a defined improvement in attitudes, values and behaviours at all levels.
Incidents Encouraging the open reporting of accidents and incidents continues to be a prime objective.
A number of subsidiaries have embraced more effective near miss reporting which is creating a better understanding of root causes, behaviours and the general management of risk.
More work will be done in this area in 2017 with others being strongly encouraged to adopt an open approach to near miss reporting.
At the same time, there has been a drive to encourage reporting of minor injuries, that in previous years might not necessarily have been reported and this has led to an increase in injuries reported as our employees begin to better understand the inherent benefits from having a safe place to work.
Reported injuries, including minor injuries, in 2016, on a like-for-like basis, was 468 2015: 339, with lost-time injuries amounting to 178.
Within this number, are some of the newer acquisitions from previous years who are becoming familiar with the Groups expectations for health and safety and injury reporting.
That said, we are confident that our sites are and remain safe places to work and that our employees better understand their health and safety obligations both to themselves and their colleagues.
Our reporting is now more accurate than it has ever been.
In particular, all subsidiaries adopt a thorough investigation process to identify underlying causes and to ensure action plans to address any improvements are put in place.
The reporting of incidents to the Group via the Safety Cloud has helped the UK sites to implement a more consistent approach and to start to gather better and more accurate data.
The culture survey also asked various questions around accident and near miss reporting, with results showing our arrangements are on par with industry standards.
Audits The externally managed health and safety audit programme continues to show that sites are demonstrating a high level of health and safety management and adherence to safe working practices.
For 2016, we saw a further improvement in the overall weighted score, which is now at its lowest since the external audit programme commenced in 2009.
2017 health and safety objectives In the forthcoming year our efforts in promoting a safe and secure workplace will continue with specific focus on: Further roll out of the safety culture assessment tool to newly acquired businesses and our overseas operations.
Utilising the findings of the 2016 culture assessment to drive improvements in how we deal with health and safety on a day to day basis and how we can encourage a better understanding of the behaviours and attitudes of our workforce.
Specific initiatives will be driven from within each site to reflect the findings from their individual surveys.
The continuation of the external audit programme, with current scores to be maintained or improved, as appropriate.
An ongoing drive to encourage better reporting of near misses and non-injury related events and a further review of the way accident data is collated to provide a more meaningful measure based on employment rate.
Further development of key performance indicators to link incident rates, health and safety audit performance and the results of the culture survey.
2 Hot dip galvanizing by France Galva on Station F, a former 34,000m railway freight hangar in Paris, France.
Now the largest start up campus in the world with more than 3,000 2 workstations, an auditorium with seating for 370 people, a fablab, a pop up store and services, as well as a 4,000m catering and relaxation area open to the public.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 42 Corporate Responsibility continued Sustainability and the environment The Group places a high priority on meeting its environmental sustainability responsibilities within the geographies in which it operates.
Each business has an appointed Energy Champion who is responsible for ensuring that the Groups policies on energy and the environment are promoted throughout its operations.
All employees are encouraged to report energy savings and recycling ideas to their local energy champion, and the Group contributes information and data to the Carbon Development Project, a programme designed to tackle climate change.
In 2016, the Group continued to measure its water and energy usage and monitor the disposal of its waste products, paying particular attention to the recycling of materials.
Different geographies have different attitudes to waste disposal and recycling and the Group is committed to seeking ways to motivate its businesses to adopt an  approach to these activities.
In the UK we utilise the services of CMR Consultants CMR, an independent energy management consultancy who help to collect, collate and verify the data.
A programme of environmental audits is carried out on a regular cycle, by an independent third-party, to monitor individual company performance and to assist the Group in reducing its environmental impact on an ongoing basis.
In addition, during the year our UK-based Group companies conducted energy audits at their premises, in accordance with the Energy Saving Opportunities Scheme.
Recommendations were made following these audits and these were discussed at the Companys inaugural Energy Forum meeting in November 2016, where the subsidiary Energy Champions shared experiences and best practice and discussed actions to identify energy savings opportunities, how to drive forward their implementation, and whether such plans should be developed on a local basis or sponsored by the Group.
Our UK operations are also committed to working towards compliance with the ISO 14002:2004 standard, which is awarded to companies that operate to an accepted environmental government standard.
A programme of audits has been agreed for our UK businesses, with companies monitoring their environmental impact on a day-to-day basis.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions The Groups GHG emissions continue to be constantly monitored, so that we can improve upon our use of energy, water, recyclable and non-recyclable resources, ensuring long-term environmental and business sustainability and creating long-term value for shareholders and other stakeholders.
We recognise that our business can have a direct and indirect effect upon the environment.
The data provided below illustrates how our carbon footprint is created by our businesses, allowing us to monitor the impact of our operations on the environment and make improvements where feasible.
Group emissions Group emissions Group emissions Group total emissions by scope 2016 2015 2014 Gas and oil usage 37,061.92 33,557.46 33,418.90 Commercial and business miles driven 8,284.80 7,104.59 7,358.00 Purchased electricity 21,950.87 23,146.75 25,851.20 Water and waste 869.10 466.07 454.70 Total tCO e 68,166.69 64,274.87 67,082.80 2 Total turnover 540.1m 467.5m 454.7m Intensity Ratio 0.126 0.137 0.148 For the UK and overseas data, the Group has decided to measure the GHG emissions using the Group total turnover, as the intensity ratio IR.
The IR is measured as the total tonnage of emissions, stated as carbon dioxide equivalent CO e per 1,000 turnover.
2 Water consumption After a few years of reported reduction in water consumption, the Groups consumption in 2016 rose by 13.6%.
This is due to the corporate acquisition strategy followed by the Group in late 2015 and throughout 2016.
When measured against Group revenues in much the same way as CO e emissions the water consumption ratio remains changed.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 43 Waste management During the year the Group significantly improved its management and reporting of waste disposal at its UK sites and introduced the same practices into certain non-UK sites where such activities were commercially viable.
The information received will be reviewed to determine how waste output can be reduced or recycled and to identify new opportunities to improve our manufacturing processes.
This collation of data has not only enabled us to improve the recycling opportunities presented to the Group, but also to lower waste output.
Waste quantities UK volume Overseas volume Commodity ltrs 2016 ltrs 2016 Liquid waste 119,423 35,508 Acidic waste like-for-like 4,929,021 1,727,106 Waste to landfill 1,550 2,647 Recycled waste 7,628 11,084 Total waste inc. landfill 9,178 13,731 The Group discourages waste to landfill, using expert waste disposal The Road Safety Week 2016 theme for Make the Brake Pledge, was companies to dispose of such waste and to recycle it wherever about raising awareness in six key areas for individuals to protect possible.
For example, some of our plastic waste is recycled into new themselves and the people around them, as well as reducing products and alternative bio-energy sources and a large proportion emissions and pollution from vehicles.
The six Brake Pledge points of our waste acid is reprocessed and recycled into other waste are: Slow, Sober, Secure, Silent, Sharp and Sustainable.
Jonathan Brown, the event co-ordinator for Mallatite Limited was Within the UK, the Group complies with the Producer Obligations extremely pleased to be able to support the event stating: Brake Packaging Waste Regulations 2007 as amended in compliance Road Safety Week is an extremely worthwhile charity event that with the European Union Directive.
The Group provides evidence to is particularly relevant to our industry.
Were a manufacturer and Wastepack, an organisation that provides confirmation to the UK distributor of a wide range of products that are vital to the safety of government that the Group is continuing to meet UK recycling and all types of road user, so its important that we all play our part to recovery standards set by Defra.
raise awareness and funds for this great cause.
Were encouraging all team members across our five sites around the country to get Community involved by making the pledge, holding a bright day and baking for Although the Group does not have a Group-wide programme in place Brake.
to support specific charities or communities, it remains committed to encouraging its subsidiary companies to fully engage with their In the US our colleagues, many of them V&S employees, participated local communities.
The Group values its relationship with the local in and helped sponsor a local 5K Run Walk Race in memory of stakeholders and the support it receives from them.
Kyle Miller, who lost his life in a kayaking accident.
Kyle enjoyed studying Zoo and Conservation Science at Otterbein University and During the year, support has been given to the Breast Cancer Wear volunteered at the Ohio Wildlife Center, and the Kyle Miller Memorial it Pink campaign, the Lily Mae Foundation, NSPCC, Cancer Research, Scholarship Fund, endowed a scholarship at Otterbein University Macmillan and Sport Relief.
In the UK, Mallatite, Signature, Dee-Organ and Post and Column took part in the UKs biggest road safety event, Road Safety Week, co-ordinated by Brake, the road safety charity.
Thousands of organisations, schools and community groups backed the Make the Brake Pledge campaign.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 44 Case Study Let sleeping dragons lie The bread and butter of Joseph Ash Galvanizings work is centred around galvanizing steel used in transport, farming, construction and infrastructure.
They do this for fabricators, fencing and agricultural manufacturers, and large structural steelwork companies.
Every so often however they also receive a project from a steel sculptor.
The works are unusual, intricate and detailed and it is an absolute pleasure to become a part of the sculptors artistic process.
Joseph Ash Galvanizing is a complete one-stop-shop steel finishing service.
The most recent pieces of art that came in to Joseph Ash Bridgend were two huge steel dragons: a dragon curled around a lamp post and a sleeping dragon, fabricated by Phoenix Forge Ltd, a bespoke metalwork and blacksmiths business based in Carmarthen, South Wales.
Will Holland from Phoenix Forge said: The dragon lamp post sculpture was vast with a wing span of approximately 6-7 feet and a nose to tail length of about 9 feet, however the sleeping dragon was a lot larger, but curled up on a rock with a diameter of 6 feet.
After spending over 300 man hours, over a period of six weeks, to make each dragon, Phoenix Forge asked Joseph Ash Bridgend to galvanize both sculptures.
Galvanizing is an important finish for outside sculptures such as these as the treatment protects the steel from atmospheric conditions and rust.
The dragon climbing the lamp post sculpture was commissioned by a private collector in Shropshire who has bought several similar sculptures from Phoenix Forge over the last few years.
The artwork has now been installed outside the clients private residence.
In contrast the sleeping dragon - which is made up of over 5,000 individual steel scales - was fabricated as a show piece for Phoenix Forges display at the 2016 Royal Welsh Show at the National Botanic Gardens in Wales.
Find out more about the company at: www.
co. uk Top - Lamp post dragon.
45 45 G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce R Rep epor ort t Governance Report 47 Chairmans Introduction to Governance 48 Board of Directors 50 Governance Report 59 Nomination Committee Report 60 Audit Committee Report 66 Remuneration Committee Report 68 Directors Remuneration Report 77 Remuneration Policy Report 85 Directors Report other statutory information 88 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Image Hardstaffs Rebloc RB60 temporary safety barrier on the A10 motorway in Zederhaus, Salzburg in Austria.
See further information at hsholdings.
