Sustainability OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Our engagement process Through regular contact with our stakeholders, we are able to understand and cater for their needs, while improving how we operate our business.
Recognising our stakeholders How we engage Patients The sustainability of our business relies on meeting the We engage with our patients, our key stakeholder, needs of our patients, both now and in the future.
through marketing and communications campaigns, focus groups and multiple customer feedback channels to meet their personal and collective healthcare needs.
Practitioners Doctors and other medical practitioners are both a We have strong sales and marketing teams who crucial route to market and, when supported, true work closely with healthcare professionals to better advocates of Hikma.
understand the needs of both the practitioner and the patient.
People The lifeblood of our Group, its imperative that our As the driving force behind our success, we empower people are motivated to drive Hikma forward to and encourage our employees to lead innovative achieve our common goals.
initiatives and maintain a healthy work-life balance.
Shareholders We rely on the support and engagement of We continuously engage with our shareholders through our shareholders, in order to deliver our investor relations and executive teams, who share our strategic objectives.
our corporate story and investment case.
Communities The success and wellbeing of the communities in which Weare committed to supporting the communities we are present are vital to maintaining our business.
in which we operate, through charitable social engagement, spreading health awareness and local volunteering.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 38 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our primary objective is to provide patients with high-quality, affordable medicines tailored to their needs.
We aim to do this in a sustainable way, working to ensure that our products deliver the maximum benefit, while managing the impact of our operations.
Our focused approach We have prioritised the sustainability issues of greatest significance and relevance to our business and stakeholders.
This sustainability report focuses on these key areas, providing examples of initiatives we have undertaken across the Group.
Additional information can be found on our website.
Our focus areas Material issues Meeting healthcare needs Our patients are at the heart of everything we do.
Treating major health issues We are focused on meeting patient needs and improving Providing affordable quality products the quality of healthcare across our markets.
Enhancing health awareness Promoting good business ethics Through stringent internal controls and a healthy ethical Responsible business initiatives culture, we ensure the future prosperity of our business Transparency & anti-bribery and stakeholders.
and corruption Supporting our communities We have built strong local businesses, which sustainably Global volunteering activities support and contribute to the local communities in Improving health and wellbeing which we operate.
Charitable community engagement Enabling our people Investing in the development and wellbeing of Professional and personal our employees is key to building a successful and employee development sustainable business.
Women empowerment initiatives Employee health and safety Minimising our environmental impact We aim to limit our environmental impact by closely Disclosing and improving our monitoring, reporting on and improving our operations.
carbon emissions Waste reduction and recycling Environmental preservation efforts Annual Report 2016 39
