Corporate responsibility Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Employees Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility Employees Our employee values and successful characteristics initiative continue to underpin our strategy to deliver consistently good customer service and are embedded in our recruitment, selection, development and reward arrangements across the Group.
Our effective use of our successful characteristics ensure that individuals hired or promoted possess the right attitude and behaviours, as well as the necessary commercial and technical skills.
We continue to review both performance and potential against these characteristics as a key part of our annual performance management, career development and succession planning processes.
The values espoused in our People Charters, now embedded in our UK and US businesses, form an integral part of our recruitment, selection and development programmes.
They also complement our Customer Charters, or Promises, and seek to further align our employees interests to the delivery of excellent customer service.
We continue to enhance our talent assessment and succession planning processes, adopting the nine-box matrix model, which helps us to identify leadership development opportunities for our employees.
Using this information, we have been able to develop co-ordinated talent and leadership programmes across the business, from front-line developing leaders to senior executives.
We attach considerable importance to ensuring that all our employees benefit from effective communications and engagement, using regular business updates, senior management briefing sessions and surgeries, question and answer opportunities and constructive relationships with employee representatives across the Group.
We also encourage our management teams to hold regular informal update meetings and social events to keep our employees informed and engaged.
A Group-wide employee engagement survey is run each year, with results reported to the Board and action plans devised, implemented and tracked locally.
We also make use of interim Pulse surveys in our businesses in order to better track the progress of our employee engagement initiatives during the course of the year.
Results from the most recent survey show that engagement levels in each of our businesses are higher than the country average but we aim for continuous improvement.
Employees are actively involved in the creation and delivery of plans and best practice for the promotion of employee engagement, which are shared across the Group.
HomeServe plc | 39 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued It is our policy that all people be considered for employment, training, career development and promotion on the basis of their abilities and aptitudes, regardless of physical ability, age, gender, sexual orientation, religion or ethnic origin.
We apply employment policies that are fair and equitable for all employees and these ensure that entry into, and progression within, the Group are determined solely by the fair application of relevant job criteria and by personal ability and competence.
We actively promote the international transfer of our employees within and across each of our businesses where this is likely to assist the development of both employee and business, and our senior HR community meets regularly to share best practice and identify opportunities to develop our employees careers.
Full and fair consideration having regard to the persons particular aptitudes and abilities is given to applications for employment and the career development of disabled persons.
Our training and development policies also make it clear that we will take all practicable steps to ensure that if an employee becomes disabled during the time they are employed, their employment can continue.
