Corporate responsibility Environment, Health & Safety Leadership Content Section at start: Continuous improvement National highlights Legal Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility Environment, Health & Safety Health, safety, wellbeing and environmental guardianship remains central to everything we do across all of our businesses.
All of our businesses are required to comply with ten guiding principles for occupational health and safety and another ten for environmental management.
The Group has a proactive assurance programme of H&S performance and facilitates crossbusiness learning and programme sharing.
We continue to strive for zero work related illness and injury.
Leadership Corporate leadership of health and safety is strong, with Johnathan Ford, Group Chief Financial Officer, as Board Champion for environmental, health and safety matters.
HR Directors continue to lead safety matters in each business, except in the UK where responsibility has transferred to the Chief Risk Officer.
The Group Safety Director continues as an independent member on the UK Health and Safety Executives Challenge adjudication Panel.
Continuous improvement Intra-company safety benchmarking is strong and accident frequency rates are used to compare both injury rate, safety culture and levels of engagement: and in preparation for the new ISO45001 specification, gives a leading indicator of safety leadership.
Our US and UK businesses have started an exchange programme for their specialist Health & Safety advisers.
Carbon emission continues to be measured across all Group companies, and the UK business left the UK Governments monitoring scheme as its carbon emissions had fallen below the schemes threshold.
National highlights The UK business has again received a Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Occupational Safety Award at the Gold Medal Award level, testimony to the continued success in driving down safety risk.
The US business has a strong health and safety relationship with the union and together they are continuing to see incident reduction.
In France, the focus has been on psychological intervention for stress risk reduction in the call centres, with the UK piloting the French approach in two business areas during the year.
An innovative learning and development programme has been launched in Spain to enhance wellbeing and reduce perceptions of stress risk.
Risotherapy is at the cutting edge of alternative coping strategies to enhance the perception of happiness and boost performance.
Legal There have been no prosecutions or other enforcement actions taken in respect of our businesses by any of the national health, safety or environmental regulators.
