Strategic report Sustainability Significant progress was made in 2016 on a number of fronts in acknowledgement of the social licence to operate that has been granted to us Our communities and the environment Dear Shareholder In 2016, we continued to prioritise the resources committed to our In 2016, the Group made significant progress across numerous areas communities with the ongoing focus on our three core areas: in acknowledgement of the social licence to operate that has been education, health and socio-economic development.
Whilst the trading granted to us.
However, it is with great regret that we recently conditions did not allow us to launch any new programmes, we built announced the accident at Inmaculada which resulted in two fatalities.
on the significant achievements to date by increasing the reach of the I would like to echo the comments of the Company Chairman in medical services offered to our rural communities as well as conveying our sincere condolences to the families of those involved successfully transferring our IT infrastructure project in Chalhuanca, as and underline the Boards collective commitment to ensuring the planned, to the regional and municipal authorities.
Further details on safety of our operations.
these initiatives, as well as those of our Argentina operations can be found in this report and on our website.
2016 in context With regards to our environmental performance, we have made Even though 2016 saw an improvement in the trading environment significant progress in terms of our usage of water, with sizeable for the Company, there was continued volatility in precious metal reductions in water consumption at our Peruvian operations and a prices.
Given managements focus on rebuilding the Companys notable increase in the amount of water recycled.
financial health, there has been a continual need for the many teams at Hochschild to prioritise the resources available to them and to I hope you will find this report informative.
If you should have any maximise the impact of their programmes.
questions or comments, please do not hesitate to contact me.
Safety Roberto Daino The accidents earlier in the year serve as a reminder of the risks in Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee general in the mining industry and why it is crucial that we expend time and effort in constantly monitoring our practices and providing training to those operating in and around our mines so that our collective goal of zero tolerance to accidents is always at the forefront.
In isolation, 2016 represented a third consecutive year without any fatalities.
However, in light of the fatalities in early 2017, we consider it imperative that we fully understand the reasons behind the latest accident and that all necessary steps are taken so that we can continue our path in reassuring colleagues of their safety.
In terms of overall performance during the year, the Group saw increases of 19% in accident frequency and 24% in accident severity.
Changes in the nature of the Groups operations did indeed take place from year to year, primarily with Inmaculada transitioning from project to core asset, however, we do not adjust our zero appetite to breaches of safety.
com 29 Sustainability continued As Chairman of the CSR Committee, Roberto Daino has Board level Governance of Corporate Social responsibility for sustainability issues to whom the Vice President of Responsibility CSR Operations and the Vice President of Legal and Corporate Affairs report for sustainability issues.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for establishing Group policies relating to sustainability and the CSR Committee has been established The CSR Committees work in 2016 with the responsibility of focusing on compliance and ensuring that During the year, the CSR Committee: appropriate systems and practices are in place.
approved the 2015 Sustainability Report for inclusion in the 2015 What is Hochschild Minings approach to Annual Report: sustainability?
monitored the execution of the yearly plan in each of the four key The Company has adopted a number of policies demonstrating our areas of focus including progress updates: commitment to: considered the priorities of the environmental team and their work plan: a safe and healthy workplace: considered the status of the Groups community initiatives: and managing and minimising the environmental impact of our reviewed the environmental and community relations related risks operations: and and related work plans.
encouraging sustainability by respecting the communities of the localities in which we operate.
Given the exposure of the Groups strategy to Sustainability Risks comprising Health & Safety, Community Relations and Environmental For further information on how we prioritise our resources and the risks, the full Board received regular presentations on how such risks Committees terms of reference, please visit www.
Furthermore, the Board received presentations from com en sustainability.
management on the blockade at Pallancata that was ongoing at the Management of sustainability year-end but which ended early this year.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for establishing Group policies Reporting of targets and indicators relating to sustainability and ensuring that appropriate standards are As part of the Companys ongoing strategy to make more information met.
The CSR Committee has been established as a formal committee available online, detailed sustainability related performance indicators of the Board with delegated responsibility for various sustainability as well as targets for 2017 are available on the Companys website.
issues, focusing on compliance and ensuring that appropriate systems and practices are in place Group-wide to ensure the effective management of  risks.
The Inmaculada mine, which only commenced commercial Safety production in the second half of 2015 succeeded in obtaining DNV Given the inherently high risk profile of mining, safety is our Level 7 certification and is therefore on a par with the Groups other, highest priority.
more established operations: The continued implementation of a bespoke suite of behaviourbased safety procedures at the Peruvian operations.
2016 HIGHLIGHTS These procedures incorporate the use of a five-step process to observe Continued implementation of the internally designed and register safety checks.
Positive reinforcement is a core part of this behaviour-based safety programme observation, which is undertaken through awards events at the New Inmaculada mine achieved Level 7 certification of the operating units to acknowledge those who have demonstrated safety DNV GL management system 2015: Level 5 excellence in their operational activities.
Fatalities in February 2017 The Hochschild approach to safety The Group regretted to announce in February 2017 that as a result of Mining has an inherently high risk profile and safety is our highest rockfall, two contractors were fatally injured at the Inmaculada mine.
Ensuring the safety of the Groups employees is considered The ongoing investigations are focusing on identifying the underlying crucial in measuring the successful implementation of corporate causes of the accident and will result in the taking of all necessary strategy to which the Board and management are committed.
steps to ensure that such accidents are avoided.
Our achievements in 2016 In relation to the Groups Safety Management System designed by the risk management firm DNV GL, the safety team completed the necessary preparatory steps as well as the requisite training in th advance of the migration to the 7 edition of the International Safety Rating System: How we performed against our 2016 safety objectives Target Status Commentary To fully roll out the behaviour-based safety programme at San Jose The programme, named OTO Operational Task Observation was successfully rolled out To fully transition to the new edition of DNV GLs International Safety Training was provided at all operating units regarding the th Rating System at all Operating Units ISRS 7 edition as well as the related audit process.
To evaluate the use of performance indicators in respect of A new Safety indicator focusing on the performance of each personal safety Mine Superintendent was introduced 30 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Our Health & Hygiene teams undertake their work in line with the Health & Hygiene following guiding principles: The Groups Health & Hygiene department is tasked with providing an Prevention comes first integrated approach to employee welfare.
Maximising quality of life Adopting measures for the long-term benefit of our people 2016 HIGHLIGHTS Proactively identifying and controlling hazards at source Contributing to the continuous improvement in the Groups Health Participation of the Corporate Health Manager in industry & Safety culture discussions on new laws affecting health and safety at work Additional monitoring and reporting of occupational health Our achievements in 2016 issues extended to the San Jose operation In 2016, the Health team, in collaboration with other departments, including the Safety team, continued to go beyond its traditional area The Hochschild approach to health and hygiene of prevention and sought to influence the way that employees approach their tasks.
Underlining the importance we place on our people and their wellbeing, the Groups Health & Hygiene department is tasked with During the year: providing an integrated approach to employee welfare.
Whilst the senior members of the team participated in discussions with respect Health team is focused on ensuring that employees have access to the to new legal requirements and provided training to team relevant services and infrastructure to ensure that treatment can be members: and provided, the Hygiene team looks to reinforce the importance of the a comprehensive programme aimed at minimising, if not quality of life at work through the prevention of occupational illness.
eradicating, exposure to harmful levels of noise was implemented Given the nature of the work and the two-week shift patterns which during the year.
This involved: result in frequent periods of absence from families, the Group the procurement of specialist monitoring equipment to gauge recognises the importance of ensuring the mental wellbeing of its the level of exposure: employees.
For this reason, the Groups Health & Hygiene teams are the examination of over 700 workers at the Peruvian also trained in occupational psychology.
operations: and the preparation of informational material highlighting the risks and encouraging the use of protective equipment which is readily available.
How we performed against our 2016 health & hygiene objectives Target Status Commentary To improve the Groups accident rating system In collaboration with the Safety department, an updated corporate policy aligning legal and technical requirements was implemented To ensure that the Groups medical services comply with proposed A review of all legal obligations was undertaken during the new regulations on occupational health year and both Peruvian and Argentinian operations are in a good state of readiness prior to implementation.
Focus on the occupational health implications of exposure to A comprehensive audit and follow-up action plan were industrial noise undertaken during the year see further details under 2016 Achievements above www.
com 31 Sustainability continued United Nations, Hochschild Mining respects the human rights of all of Our people the Companys stakeholders including those of our employees, our contractors and suppliers, as well as the members of our local communities.
2016 HIGHLIGHTS The importance placed by the Company on human rights is reflected in Workforce trained: 89% 2015: 79% the Groups training programme which seeks to ensure that all Average number of hours of training per year per employee: employees are aware of their rights and the Companys commitments.
27.28 hours 2015: 33.33 hours Activities in 2016 The people-focused initiatives during the year included the following: The Hochschild approach to our people Developing our people Training and development In light of the limited budgetary resources, training and development The quality of our people is key to the success of the business in programmes were targeted on key technical areas.
In Peru, managers achieving its strategic objectives and our ongoing objective is therefore from across the mining units participated in various leadershipto attract and retain high quality personnel.
The Companys Human based courses.
Resource team seeks to achieve this by providing competitive remuneration, a positive working environment through the promotion Managing our talent of social and recreational activities, and ongoing The People Review process was undertaken which maps talent within professional development.
the organisation and identifies key positions and succession plans.
Group values, labour relations and human rights Creating a better place to work and Enhancing the Working Amongst the primary responsibilities of the Human Recources team is Environment the clear communication of the Groups corporate values: Integrity, The Group continues to make use of an Organisational Climate Survey Teamwork, Quality and Excellence, Responsibility and Commitment to which has been widely acknowledged as a key tool to measure levels of our People.
These values are embodied in our Code of Conduct which, satisfaction amongst employees and to identify opportunities for amongst other things, sets out our undertakings to treat all employees further development.
During the year, the Company continued using fairly and to respect the right to be free of harassment or intimidation the 2016 Climate Survey results to improve conditions in our mining in the workplace.
We recognise the core labour rights principles and, in units and administrative offices.
this respect, support the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
The Group continually reviews its offering of non-financial benefits which currently comprise flexible working hours for Head Office staff Approximately 57% of our total workforce is represented by a trade over the summer period and the holding of regular social events.
As a signatory of the Global Compact of the People indicators 2016 2015 2014 2013 1 Gender diversity statistics Number of employees Male 3,859 3,492 3,468 4,080 Female 222 237 229 276 2 Number of senior managers Male 35 34 31 23 Female 1 2 2 2 Number of Board Members Male 8 8 8 8 Female 1 0 0 0 1 As at 31 December 2 Defined as those who qualify under the UK statutory definition of senior manager as at 31 December.
32 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Secondary Education Working with our communities The fourth year of the Secondary Programme of Maestro Lider has also been successful, with the launch of the pre-University Academy and a vocational orientation fair.
In total, around 500 students and almost 2016 HIGHLIGHTS 100 teachers participated.
Prioritising the Groups resources which have targeted high Scholarships impact initiatives Through the Groups Argentinian and Peruvian operations, Hochschild Facilitating digital inclusion among the communities that live has provided scholarships so that students can benefit from further in the areas surrounding our mine operations technical studies or college.
In 2016, over 80 scholarships were granted.
Training for Work For more information on our Sustainability indicators visit From the Groups Argentinian operations, almost 40 students were www.
com sponsored on an Introduction to Mining course and almost 30 students embarked on vocational courses in mining drilling.
All students were Our view of working with our communities from the local town of Perito Moreno and were subsequently employed by the Group.
Hochschild has historically fostered a culture of collaborating with local communities surrounding our projects and operations to Donation to UTEC promote sustainable development.
This is a key tenet of the Groups The Group facilitated a donation of US$1m to UTEC, a new corporate strategy that underpins our approach to mining that we university established in Lima offering a wide range of vocational succinctly describe as Operating Responsibly.
Community relations in practice Health Despite the restrictions in financial resources resulting from the Medico fide Cabecera the Travelling Doctor programme trading challenges during the year, the Group continued to prioritise This hugely successful programme, which aims to provide free access the ongoing implementation of its social programmes with the to medical care, workshops for health prevention and health education communities thereby minimising any direct impact.
This was largely for local communities, continues to receive high levels of demand from achieved through more efficient internal processes and synergies in all of our operations.
In 2016, over 11,000 medical consultations were order to maximise the resources available for allocation.
carried out and over 200 preventative campaigns run.
Our achievements in 2016 Socio-economic development During the year we accomplished the goals set for our high impact Digital Chalhuanca initiatives, further details of which are provided below.
This flagship project which, in addition to bringing wi-fi access to the community of Chalhuanca, also sought to encourage digital inclusion.
Education In its fifth year of implementation, the Group oversaw the planned Elementary Education transfer of the facility to the Regional and Municipal authorities who Support programmes have been implemented across various locations will now look to ensure that the project continues to provide invaluable close to our Peruvian and Argentinian operations ranging from the benefits to the local community while also looking to extend its reach.
provision of school meals to employment of qualified teaching staff.
Business Networks For the fourth consecutive year, the Company has supported Close to the Inmaculada mine, the Group has supported families with approximately 340 students in 11 schools close to the new Inmaculada their agricultural and artisanal enterprises to promote financial mine with the Maestro Lider initiative which seeks to enhance independence and to improve nutrition.
For further information on the Chalhuanca project and other projects supported by the Group, please visit: http: www.
com en sustainability case studies How we performed against our 2016 community objectives Target Status Commentary To increase the scope of opportunities for community-led We have designed the necessary protocols to carry out this commercial enterprises to provide support services for the initiative.
We are in the process of aligning local suppliers Inmaculada mine.
with certain requirements of the mine.
To secure the support of co-sponsors for the Groups We successfully negotiated contributions from the State for social programmes our Business Networks project, which will be disbursed in 2017 and 2018.
In addition, support from the local Municipalities was also secured.
To facilitate the use of technology by local communities close to our Four digital centers were inaugurated in the districts of operations through the establishment of digital centres.
Oyolo, Anizo, San Javier fide Alpabamba and San Francisco fide Rivacayco, with state-of-the-art technology as well as a training plan for the digital inclusion of participants.
com 33 Sustainability continued Hochschild recognises that environmental and social responsibility Managing our environmental impact extends beyond the life of our operations and as a result, mine closure We are committed to becoming a leader in sourcing minerals with the plans are in place to restore areas where mining activity has ceased.
least environmental footprint possible During the year, a review of a number of these plans was undertaken with the support of internationally recognised consultants.
2016 HIGHLIGHTS Our achievements in 2016 Continued resourcing of the environmental team with more than Launched new Corporate Performance Indicators 100 people working in related operational roles and Continued focus on water management and treatment across environmental management: all operations New Environmental Corporate policy launched going beyond compliance and promoting an environmentally conscious culture The Hochschild approach to environmental through, among other things, the promotion of efficient use management of resources Supported the business by securing the: We are committed to ensuring the integrity of the environment in which we develop our operations and new projects.
Our environmental approval of Pallancatas revised Environmental Impact management system has been established at a corporate level Assessment EIA : incorporating best management practices.
approval of Inmaculadas environmental permit to reflect new components and increased plant capacity: and environmental permits for the Arcata, Ares and Pallancata exploration projects.
How we performed against our 2016 environmental objectives Target Commentary Continue strengthening the environmental team Team is fully staffed Launch new Corporate environmental Completed.
performance objectives Continue the review of the environmental In progress.
ISO 14001 certification will be halted for two years during this review.
management system Continue efforts in improving water treatment systems and In progress.
In 2016 new treatment plants installed and water saving efforts water saving throughout all mining operations implemented throughout all mining operations.
Review existing waste management system In progress.
Contract to be launched in Q1 2017.
1 1 2 Greenhouse gas emissions data tonnes of CO e 2016 2015 2014 2013 2 Emissions from combustion of fuel and operation of facilities tCO e 45,909 46,790 73,244 56,234 2 Emissions from purchased electricity tCO e 88,646 78,163 69,933 72,946 2 3 Emissions intensity, per thousand ounces of total silver equivalent produced CO e k oz 4,140 5,531 5,533 4,890 2 1 Includes data for the whole year for Ares, Arcata, Selene, Pallancata, Inmaculada, San Jose and office locations 2 Restated following a review of underlying data 3 Total production includes 100% of all production, including that attributable to the joint venture partner at San Jose 34 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016
