32 Our people Keeping them safe, offering them rewarding careers, developing their potential KPI Accident severity rate Other themes in 2016 RIDDORs 100k hours worked 22% reduction 20122016 Moving from Training to 59% reduction 20122016 Learning & Development Growing our own 0.30 70 developing new apprenticeship 0.25 60 programmes 0.20 50 Succession planning 40.2 developing our leaders 0.15 40 of the future 0.09 0.10 30 0.05 20 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Accident severity rate hours lost to accidents 100k hours worked Keeping our people safe Continued efforts, focusing on risk and behaviours, sharing best practice Weve got 8,900 employees, and we need to keep them all safe Other highlights include: at work.
Accidents have remained very low this year because 1m bespoke forklift truck failsafe loading alert system weve continued to invest in safe processes and safe plant rolled out across all depots.
Development of bespoke safety management software which provides a single place for recording and tracking But having robust processes can only take us so far.
So this year, any incidents across the whole depot network.
weve turned our attention to changing behaviours and mind sets.
Retaining our ISO 18001 safety accreditation at all Were also working with other companies and consultants to factories and warehouses.
help us benchmark and challenge ourselves.
We hope that these actions will improve our safety record even further.
We have brought safety teams from the trade division and the supply division together to share best practice and work on common risk areas.
One example of this is a short film that we produced this year, highlighting our procedures for unloading at depots.
Responsibility for safety when unloading is shared between the lorry driver making the delivery and the depot staff receiving and unloading the goods.
Making a film with employees from both divisions allowed us to give a consistent message across the business.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 33 Offering rewarding careers Good basic salary, substantial bonus opportunity We pay a good basic salary.
We evaluate all our job roles against We give staff the a consistent scale across each division.
We use a scale based on opportunity to get the skills required for each role, and we set our salaries according substantial bonuses for to those skills.
This is transparent and objective, and helps our exceptional performance.
people to know that we are treating them equally and paying them This has always been part according to their skills.
All of our pay rates are above the living of the Howdens business model wage, and most of them are well above it.
We also offer a range and culture.
Our people share in the of both core and opt-in benefits to suit our employees lifestyles.
profitability of their local site, as well as in the profitability of Howdens as a whole.
We offer all of our people the opportunity to be part of a pension In the words of some of our staff, the scheme which we contribute to.
In 2016 we paid 53.4m into our bonuses that they can achieve for pension schemes for the benefit of our 17,000 members, which exceptional performance in our peak include both current and former employees.
We also offer free trading period can be life-changing.
shares to all our people who stay with the company for at least three years, so that they can share in our growth.
Developing potential Moving from training to learning & development, identifying tomorrows leaders to grow with the business, developing new apprenticeships Weve completed our transformation beyond simply training We have almost 300 apprentices currently training.
In our Supply division, some of them are apprenticed in engineering, some are for current job roles to developing for the future.
Our business apprenticed to become multi-skilled machine operators, and benefits from the investment we make in developing our people.
some are apprenticed in our logistics operation and are learning When we invest in the right people we can grow our own leaders.
to become our next generation of truck drivers.
Leaders who already understand the strategic importance of the Howdens business model and culture.
Our investment in In our Trade division we have apprentices working in a variety of development also gives valuable opportunities to our best people roles across the depot network.
2016 has been the first year of and helps us to retain them.
our Howdens-specific three-year apprenticeship programme.
We will need more leaders at every level as we implement our During their first year, apprentices gain a  strategy to expand the depot network.
Were using a consistent qualification and they also get experience of each main role in a approach across the business to identify people with the potential depot, such as counter sales, business development, and kitchen to step up.
Then were supporting them with a tailored development design.
In the second and third years, they decide to specialise framework to get them ready for their next career step before they in one role and they continue their development through specific actually take that step.
This means that they can hit the ground courses relevant to that role.
running, with the confidence to perform at a high standard and to See some of the stories that our people have to tell about their deliver the Howdens values and service to our customers.
career development with Howdens at: https: careers.
We are also continuing to develop our apprenticeship programmes com our-people.
throughout the business, offering a range of worthwhile futures to young people across the country.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
