34 Our customers Sustainable product, safety and traceability, supporting our customers KPI Other themes in 2016 Energy-efficient new % energy reduction on best-selling Lamona fridge-freezers products In 2013 we set ourselves the target to reduce the energy Increased efforts to trace consumption of our best-selling Lamona fridge-freezers by 5% in product to end-users the three years to 2016.
We havent been able to meet the 5% target Supporting the builder by the end of 2016, although we expect to beat the target in 2017. and the builders customer We have been working with our suppliers to achieve further reductions in 2016, and we look forward to launching new A rated fridge-freezers in 2017, which will give a 10% reduction in energy consumption over 2013 levels.
Sustainable product Energy efficiency, durability and quality Our appliances are made by third party suppliers to our We test the durability of our manufactured products by subjecting specifications.
We have always worked in partnership with our them to a range of tests intended to represent the challenges of a suppliers to improve the energy performance of our appliances, real kitchen.
For example, we test the durability of their surfaces by and each year this brings improvements in different product covering them with everyday household products, from bleach and categories.
Highlights in 2016 are: other cleaning products, to curry powder and red wine.
We slam test doors and drawers up to 10,000 times, we put excessive all our Lamona dishwashers now have an A energy rating.
weights on hinged cabinet doors to represent the action of This means that we can now offer our customers a dishwasher someone using the door to pull themselves up from floor level, and which is 11% more energy-efficient we put half-tonne weights on the shelves of our tall cabinets we have introduced more efficient motors into three of our to represent a fully laden fridge freezer.
extractors, offering energy savings of up to 36% Our suppliers test all of our Lamona appliances in their own we have developed our first A rated single oven, which laboratories.
Their testing is accredited by independent third offers an 8% energy saving over our previous best offer parties, so we already know that these products pass all the Our end-users demands are changing all the time and we need required safety directives.
In addition we test all Lamona products to make sure that our builder-customers can offer a Howdens in an independent test facility.
This gives us extra assurance product to meet those demands.
People want the highest levels as well as simulating four years usage in a home environment.
of quality, safety and design, and the lowest energy consumption, We also put our kitchens and appliances into Liverpool John at the best price.
We have a rolling development programme with Moores University teaching kitchens where students put them our main appliance suppliers where we look forward three to five through their paces every day and give us direct feedback on years to develop our products for the future.
planning tomorrows energy savings today.
Offering our customers no-call-back quality kitchen and joinery is part of our mission statement.
We manufacture all of our cabinets ourselves, which means that we have direct control of their quality and can be confident in offering a 25 year guarantee on them.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 35 Safety and traceability Safety by design, scanning and registering products We design safety features into the products we make ourselves, In 2016 we have: and we carefully select bought-in product from reputable sources included links to the Register my appliance website on and then we carry out additional safety testing before we sell it to our own website and in the document pack that comes with our customers.
the appliance As an example of safe bought-in product, our Lamona tumble put a sticker on the instruction manual for each appliance dryers have always been designed so that the heating element with the unique serial number of that appliance, so that its and the main airflow are separated.
This is to prevent excess fluff easier for end users to register them coming into contact with the heating element and potentially briefed depot staff on the importance of encouraging catching fire.
productregistration and put reminders and information in our productcatalogues Its important to us to do as much as we can to trace the ownership of our appliances, in case we ever have a product recall.
Were also working with the UK trade association for domestic We have installed scanners at all of our depots, so that we have a appliance manufacturers to see what else we can do to encourage record of which items have been sold to which builder-customer.
end-users to register their appliances.
Were also working hard to encourage the domestic end-user to register their products so that we can support them if the need ever arises.
Supporting our customers Supporting the builder, supporting the builders customer Our business model is designed to have the greatest positive We also offer a high level of support to the builders customer, impact on our customers businesses.
Firstly, we invest in offering a wide selection of builders have trade accounts with us, and we offer each of those different kitchen ranges.
We offer different styles, colours and businesses the same high levels of service and support.
price points, so that the builder can offer their customer choice and personalisation.
Small builders are typically managing more than one project at the same time.
They may have to change priorities and reschedule Secondly, we offer specialised support in planning the ideal work at short notice because their customers need them to.
Our designers will go out to the end-users home, for free Managing that complexity can be a headache, but our unique and at a time which suits them, to measure the space and discuss business model is developed to support them.
We will then produce state of the art 3D kitchen design plans that the end-user can view at their leisure and discuss with Because we have invested in being an in-stock business, a their builder, friends and family.
builder can come into the depot and take away a complete kitchen to start work that same day if they need to.
We can also We also stand by our products once the builder has installed them.
offer delivery onsite at a time to suit the builders schedule.
Time Our aftersales service will work directly with the builders customer is money, and we have spent our money to give the builder more to resolve any questions.
An end-user can phone our helpline or time.
Being in stock also allows us to swap product if the end-user can go into their local depot.
We can send locally-based engineers changes their mind.
to deal with any appliance issues quickly and efficiently.
We support the builders business by offering them trade accounts with nett monthly payment terms.
This means that the builder can be paid for the completed job before they need to pay us.
During our peak trading period in 2016 we made 220m of working capital available to our customers in this way.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
