64 Audit Committee Report continued During the year, the Committee considered the effectiveness AR AR ARE E EAS AS AS O O OF F F SIG SIG SIGN N NIF IF IFI I IC C CANT ANT ANT F F FIN IN INAN AN ANC C CI I IAL AL AL JU JU JUD D DG G GE E EM M ME E ENT NT NT of the Internal Audit function and the Internal Audit plan.
The C C CO O ON N NSIDE SIDE SIDER R RE E ED D D B B BY Y Y TH TH THE E E A A AU U UDI DI DIT T T C C CO O OM M MM M MI I IT T TTE TE TEE E E Committee concluded that the function remained effective, wellD D DU U UR R RIN IN ING G G TH TH THE E E Y Y YE E EAR AR AR led and had a well-defined remit.
An independent review of the The Committee recognises that some areas of accounting require Internal Audit function was last undertaken by PwC in 2012.
In line judgement to be exercised.
In relation to the Groups accounts with the Committees policy to perform an external review of the this year, the principal areas of judgement relate to inventory function every five years, an external review of the Internal Audit obsolescence and actuarial assumptions.
function will be undertaken during 2017.
Valuation of inventory WH WH WHI I IS S STL TL TLE E EBL BL BLO O OWIN WIN WING G G The Groups in stock model necessitates tight management The Groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for of inventory to ensure comprehensive local availability while employees to have access to a confidential outsourced service, minimising obsolescence and wastage.
The Committee reviewed which allows calls and emails to be received in multiple languages, the results of stock counts and processes to value inventory 24 hours a day.
Complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal including the assumptions behind obsolescence provisions.
controls, auditing issues and related matters are reported to the They also received reports from the external auditor on inventory Audit Committee as appropriate.
The Whistleblowing policy and in considering the appropriateness of provisions held against issues raised and investigated under this policy were formally the carrying value of inventory, having regard to the age of reviewed during the year.
discontinued lines and volumes of continuing lines relative to the expected usage.
E E EX X XTE TE TER R RN N final AL AL A A AU U UDI DI DIT T TO O OR R R The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation Actuarial assumptions and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit in line with The net deficit of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme relevant legislation, ethical standards and guidance.
has increased substantially over the year reflecting the impact of market conditions on key valuation assumptions.
The Committee A A Au u ud d di i it t tor or or e e ef f ff f fe e ec c ct t ti i iv v five e ene ne fines s ss s s considered carefully the appropriateness of these assumptions, To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the the recommendations of external actuaries and the views of the Committee reviewed: external auditors.
In previous years, the Audit Committee considered recoverability The arrangements for ensuring the external auditors of trade debtors to be an area of significant financial judgement.
independence and objectivity: Whilst managements assumptions underlying the bad debt The external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and provision continues to be challenged as an area of audit focus, any variations from the plan: the Audit Committee no longer consider these assumptions to be significant to the overall results.
This reflects the effectiveness of The perceptions of the auditor and audit process from key tight credit controls over many years and the consistent record of management personnel in the finance function: predicting recovery rates.
The robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their All of the matters considered above were discussed with the handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, Group Finance The content of the external auditors report on Director and the external auditor.
The Committee is satisfied that internal control.
each of the matters set out above have been fully and adequately addressed by the Executive Committee, appropriately tested and reviewed by the external auditor and the disclosures made in the A A Aud ud udi i it t to o or r r i i in n ndep dep depen en enden den denc c ce e e a a an n nd d d f f fe e ee e es s s Annual Report and Accounts are appropriate.
The Committee recognises that auditor independence is an essential part of the audit framework and the assurance it INTE INTE INTER R RN N final AL AL A A AU U UDI DI DIT T T provides.
To fulfil its responsibilities regarding the independence of the external auditor, the Committee undertook a comprehensive During the year, the Committee reviewed: review during 2016 encompassing the following: Internal Audits programme of work and resources: A review of the independence of the external auditor and the Results of key audits and other significant findings including arrangements which they have in place to identify, report and the adequacy and timeliness of managements response: manage conflicts of interest: Consideration of the effectiveness of the external auditor The level and nature of assurance activity performed by through a review of their plan of work and the outputs arising Internal Audit: and from the audit: Staffing, reporting and effectiveness of divisional audits.
A review of the changes in key external audit staff for the current year and the arrangements for the day-to-day management of the audit relationship:
