40 Our communities Local community projects, nationwide and international projects, education and scholarships Local community projects Local involvement on a nationwide basis, thousands of donations, 1.5m contributed Every Howdens depot, manufacturing site, distribution and support giving our staffs time and materials to help renovate facilities centre, has an important role in the life of its local community.
at a care home Each of our sites depends on its local community for its success providing assistance to a local school or college and growth: for its customers and its staff.
Our culture is based donating cash to a local hospitals appeal for vital equipment on personal relationships and individual accountability, and we encourage our people to support and engage with local community In 2016, weve made 3,700 separate donations which have activities and charities.
involved us giving cash or products worth 1.5m.
In addition to that, we also donated 150,000 of cash and stock to communities We make our products, time and cash available for staff at local affected by flooding.
sites to get involved in their communities in all sorts of ways.
This year we have donated 61 kitchens and paid for them to be fitted.
Our culture of being involved in the local community and of giving Typical cash donations may be just a few hundred pounds, but back to that community also shows in the actions our people take as they will make a big difference.
They might cover things like: individuals.
Every year, all across the country, we support individuals buying new kit for a local childrens sports team and teams of our people as they give up their time and put themselves to the test to raise money for all sorts of local and national charities.
supporting the work of a community centre Nationwide and international projects Leonard Cheshire Disability: increased commitment, starting involvement with international projects Weve had a successful partnership with Leonard Cheshire Disability Just over four years ago we began to support LCDs Can Do LCD since 2004 and were pleased to say that it continues to grow.
Can Do gives young disabled adults the chance In 2016 we have doubled our commitment to LCD and have donated to develop important life and work skills, and boost their selfcash and goods worth 0.8m.
It does this by supporting them to devise and take part in a range of volunteering projects in their local community.
It gives LCD works for a society where everyone is equally valued, and them individual mentoring, group support and a social network, supports people with all types of disabilities, all over the world.
Like as well as an opportunity to gain further qualifications.
Howdens Howdens, LCD values local relationships, and their work supports support has helped Can Do expand from four locations when we disabled people to be active members of their local communities.
began our involvement to 19 locations in 2016, supporting more They support disabled people to live in their own homes and than 6,000 young disabled people through meaningful volunteering in residential care, as well as providing skills and employment opportunities in their local community.
programmes to help disabled people into work.
Internationally, in over 50 countries worldwide, LCD helps disabled children into Can Do aims to build young peoples confidence, so that they can primary school, and supports disabled adults into jobs.
get out and about on their own, cook their own meals, build their support and friendship networks, and where possible get them Our work with LCD is in three main areas: ready for the world of work.
In 2016, Can Do participants in London designing and fitting inclusive kitchens in their care homes and swapped skills with employers, providing them with training on day centres so disabled people can live more independently disability equality in the workplace, in exchange for support with CV helping young disabled people play an active role in writing.
As a result of taking part in Can Do, 79% of participants felt their communities through sponsorship of the Can Do more independent and able to do tasks and activities on their own, volunteering programme and 87% of them believe their employability and skills improved.
working with LCDs international network on overseas projects Howdens has a global reach through our supply chain, and so in 2016 we began to support LCDs global network.
We are currently Howdens are experts in designing inclusive kitchens for disabled supporting two projects in South East Asia.
One of them aims to people or those with limited mobility, and all of our ranges are available equip 5,000 disabled adults with the training and skills needed to with a variety of inclusive features.
We have pledged to supply and fit find employment or to start their own business.
The other project inclusive kitchens from our range wherever they are needed in any of aims to support 300 disabled women by promoting their human LCDs homes across the country.
We take on projects as prioritised by rights, preventing violence and supporting them into employment.
LCD and when convenient for each home.
This years demand meant that we planned, donated and fitted 27 kitchens.
Some of these are There are more details of our involvement with LCD online at specific training kitchens, used to pass on cooking skills which help www.
com about-us  and people increase their ability to live independently.
more information about LCD at https: www.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 41 Education and scholarships QEST educational scholarships, E-ACT academies QEST is the charitable arm of the Royal Warrant Holders Howdens also work with E-ACT, a leading independent academy Association.
They grant apprenticeships and scholarships in sponsor, responsible for managing, maintaining and developing traditional and contemporary crafts, making a vital contribution 24 academies.
We are part way through a three-year commitment to the British craft industry.
We started to work with them in 2015. to provide 20,000 per year to assist with developing community Our donations so far have funded one scholar in furniture making engagement.
We offer them practical support in the shape of and design, and we look forward to sponsoring another scholar in providing expert volunteer help with their governance, and we 2017.
There is more information about QEST at www.
uk also promote our apprenticeship programmes to E-ACT students about-qest whereappropriate.
Case Study: Retained firefighters and emergency first responders Our people are making a real difference in their local community, relationship has been instrumental in keeping crewing levels and are helping to save lives.
Our factory in Howden, Yorkshire, high and keeping two vehicles on the run during the day as well is on the edge of a small rural town.
The local fire station is as on evenings and at weekends.
unmanned and relies on retained firefighters.
These are people We also have some employees who are trained as first who typically have other jobs or responsibilities, but when the responders and who support the local ambulance service.
call comes they drop whatever they are doing and respond.
These people are called out to give essential advanced first aid Six years ago we started working with the local Fire and Rescue in the case of, say, a heart attack or stroke.
They give vital initial Service and we currently have three employees who are trained care until an ambulance can get to the scene.
This sort of care members of the retained firefighter team at the Howden fire can be critical in determining the outcome of an emergency, station.
That station sent teams to over 200 incidents in 2016, especially in more rural areas where ambulances have to come including house fires, vehicle fires, industrial fires and incidents from further away.
According to the local Fire and Rescue in which people were trapped in burning buildings.
80% of Service, the team which our employees are part of has saved those calls had at least one of our people on the responding at least a dozen lives in the last year.
team and on most calls our people made up at least half of the Around two years ago, we started to do the same thing at our team.
In recognition of this, one of our employees was given the Runcorn factory and we now have a retained firefighter team 2016 Chief Fire Officers Award.
This award is only given to one there.
In the future we hope to extend this and have a team person in a year, and it was presented in recognition for building based at our main warehouse in Northamptonshire.
a strong relationship between Howdens and the Humberside Fire & Rescue Service.
In the words of the Chief Officer, that Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
