BUSINESS CONDUCT AND SUSTAINABILITY After over 40 years in business, we understand that sustainable long-term returns stem from good conduct.
We seek to act with integrity towards our staff, our clients, our regulators and the markets, maintaining a reputation for professionalism and ethical practice.
CLIENT SUPPORT AND EDUCATION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS We provide extensive educational resources for our clients, Our conduct as a business is driven by our values of hallmark including an introduction programme that promotes responsible quality, passion for progress, transparency in dealing and trading, an interactive educational app and a wide range of meritocratic opportunity.
These values have been an organic seminars and webinars.
We continually look to keep this content andfundamental part of ourhistoric growth and success.
However, engaging and targeted towards our clients needs.
with growth comes the challenge of maintaining that culture and with it appropriate conduct.
For thisreason, we decided to define Based on client feedback, and following the launch of our ourvalues clearly and communicate them to staff, giving our in-house TV studio in 2014, we increased the amount of original people a strong framework and direction to help them realise our video content we supply for this purpose.
Clients can now get overall vision.
In this way we have embeddedsound corporate instant access to expert tutorials, which cover everything from conduct in the culture of the business, so it is not simply a risk or fundamental trading concepts to risk management.
We also provide an extensive range of trading tools, such as Conduct undoubtedly represents a real risk to all firms within the regular free news, commentary and analysis on IG TV and via financial industry and our clients.
For this reasonwe have actively the News and Analysissection of our website.
We offer charting engaged in the agenda and developed a risk management packages and various technical analysis tools that enable our strategy, entrenching various quantitative and qualitative clients to screen markets for trading opportunities and to receive measures to identify, measure, manage and monitor conduct alerts when trading signals appear.
Our strategic initiatives include producing monthlyKey Risk Indicators KRIs and dashboards for conduct risk, witha rolling plan of thematic conduct risk reviewsand formalised conduct consideration prior to project sign-off.
In this way we ensure effective communication of the tone from the top throughout the organisation.
We apply high standards across our businesses, and specifically in our corporate governance as set out in the Corporate Governance Report and the Directors Report in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The  how we do this in practice.
COMMITMENT TO OUR CUSTOMERS We aim to put our customers at the heart of everything we do, and we strive to ensure that we understand our clients needs and consistently deliver fair outcomes and positive experiences.
We have a very low tolerance for poor consumer outcomes, and we are committed to investing in process, training and culture to prevent unsatisfactory customer experiences and to address root causes where any practice falls short.
We maintain this policy even when it may have a negative impact on our own revenue or costs.
IG Academy app We ensure that commitment to our customers is embedded in our culture and strategic initiatives, and we regularly seek and review feedback from our clients.
This enables us to develop our products and services specifically to meet the needs of active traders globally.
Central to our commitment to our customers is the quality of our order execution.
We now process 100% of active client trades automatically.
We never requote prices and, outside our set margin of tolerance, our innovative price-improvement technology enables customers to receive a better price if one becomes available as a trade is executed.
30 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT We are using sophisticated technology to make sure our clients get fast support, from the right person, whenever and however they contact us.
Lizzie Counihan Head of Operations 31 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 BUSINESS CONDUCT AND  LIMITING CLIENT LOSSES OUR COMMITMENT We have a number of services designed to help clients limit any A sense of responsibility manifests itself in everything we do.
It has losses they may make.
underpinned our conduct as a business since our inception, playing an instrumental role in the growth and success of IG Group.
Our clients can choose to attach guaranteed stops to their positions, so that they know their maximum possible loss at the outset of PROTECTING OUR CLIENTS DATA ANDFUNDS atrade.
This year we have introduced an innovative new charging We prioritise the security of our clients information and have system that encourages our clients to use guaranteed stops.
No achieved the ISO 27001:2005 certificate for information premium is payable for attaching a guaranteed stop unless it is security management.
triggered, so clients will frequently receive protection free of charge.
We fully segregate funds for retail individuals, in compliance with IG is the first provider to offer guaranteed stops on this basis.
the regulations, and we hold segregated client money entirely Our close-out monitor COM, which seeks to automatically separately from our own money across a diverse range of banks.
liquidateclients positions when their margin has been significantly This ensures that, in the event of our default, client funds would be eroded, is also a means by which we help protect clients.
At returned to the clients rather than being treated as a recoverable 31 May 2016, 99.91%of all client accounts were subject to the asset by our general creditors.
Further details are set out in note 36 We continue to engage  LLP to conduct to the Financial Statements.
ongoing independent reviews of our controls and procedures for In July 2016, we are also introducinga limited-risk account.
This is client money calculation and segregation ISAE 3000.
In committing the default account we offer to less experienced clients or clients to this review process, we have taken an additional step, over towards the lower end of the wealth acceptance scale.
Clientswho and above standard audit checks and our regulators reporting are eligible for our other account types can also request a requirements.
This reflects our dedication to keeping our clients limited-risk account, if they so wish.
funds secure and delivering beneficial outcomes for customers.
CLIENT APPROPRIATENESS Our products are not appropriate for everyone, and we recognise We prioritise the security of our that good conduct is particularly vital in relation to marketing and client recruitmentto prevent poor consumer outcomes.
We have clients information and have a number of procedures that ensure our advertising reaches the right audience, and that our clients appreciate the risks involved achieved the ISO 27001:2005 with our products and understand how our services work.
certificate for information We follow strict guidelines to ensure that we only promote our products to a target audience within appropriate sectors and security management.
We also conduct rigorous checks to ensure that all promotions are clear, fair and not misleading, and that risks are not downplayed compared to the benefits of our products.
Before we allow a prospective client to open an account, we OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT carry out an assessment to determine whether our products are As a business thatconducts nearly all of its client trades appropriate for them.
We actively question applicants and must be online and undertakes no industrial activities, we do not see satisfied that clients have the necessary knowledge or experience ourselves as a significant emitter of  to understand the risks involved.
To further assess whether our substances.
However, we still take any necessary actions to products could produce poor outcomes, we ask clients for details ensure that we minimise the impact of our operations on the of their income and savings, both at account opening and in surrounding environment.
Based on the results of these assessments, we may Running and maintaining our IT infrastructure comprises the choose to provide an applicant with a clear warning about the main source of our environmental impact.
This supports our appropriateness of the product or restrict them to a type of account award-winning platform and ensures we are able to consistently where risk is limited.
We may also decline to open an account, or maintain our high level of platform uptime.
indeed close an account if it has already been opened.
Powering and cooling our datacentres results in the majority of our power usage as well as our energy costs.
As such, we update our hardware and software as appropriate to save money and energy.
This year we continued to decommission and virtualise 240 legacy rack-mounted servers, migrating onto a hyper-converged infrastructure which has a lower environmental impact.
We recycled the legacy hardware in accordance with our internal recycling policy, ensuring that any data was securely destroyed before recycling the remaining components.
After our datacentres, our global offices are the second-largest consumer of energy.
We apply a number of energy-saving processes and have a far-reaching recycling policy, which encompasses not only a proportion of our daily office waste, but also extends to our IT equipment when we replace hardware, while trying to ensure that we use any desktop equipment for its maximum useful life.
32 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Our Head Office building, where more than half of our employees Basis of preparation are based, is also ISO 14001 certified, and we complement this Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated on the basis of financial  system with our own sensor-lighting control, with the emissions data included for the companies to reduce our energy use.
The rollout of our modern office project consolidated in the Financial Statements, noting the Statement of is also helping us to work in a more energy-efficient way and Exclusions given below: reduce our environmental impact.
Employees are now able to We have based our methodology on the principles of the work from home using laptops, which consume less power than Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol desktop computers and reduce the need for work-related travel.
By We have reported on all the measured emissions sources converting to a hot desk working environment, we will ultimately required under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and be able to use our office space more efficiently and cut costs.
To Directors Report Regulations 2013, except where stated date we have deployed laptops to 52% of our London staff and all of our Krakow employees.
This includes emissions under Scope 1 and 2, except where stated, but excludes any emissions from Scope 3 The global nature of our business, with employees located in 17countries, results in the need for our people to travel around the In line with the revised GHG Protocol, market-based factors globe to provide local support for staff and clients.
We have taken have been identified and presented for the UK further steps to minimise these journeys by installing state-of-the-art Conversion factors for electricity, gas and other emissions are video-conferencing facilities.
We use Skype for Business to those published by the Department for Environment, Food and provide environment-friendly video-conferencing, both from desks Rural Affairs for 2015-2016.
Conversion factors for UK electricity and in meeting rooms across our Head Office and seven of our market-based methodology are published by electricityinfo.
Statement of exclusions EMISSIONS DATA Global diesel use for vehicles has been excluded from the report We provide emissions data in respect of the financial year ended on the basis that it is not material to our carbon footprint.
31 May 2016 in the Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Emissions Report The scope of reporting for our fugitive emissions has been and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Ratio tables below.
In the restricted to the United Kingdom.
Other regions have been tables, Scope 1 emissions are those incurred in air conditioning excluded due to lack of data or immateriality.
our offices and running back-up generators for our servers, while Scope 2 emissions are purchased energy such as electricity.
For the most significant sources of energy consumption discussed above, we purchase electricity via our landlords.
MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORT EMISSION TYPE 2014-15 2015-16 2015-16 CO e TONNES CO e TONNES CO e TONNES 2 2 2 LOCATION-BASED MARKET-BASED Scope 1: operation of facilities 161.77 429.9 429.9 Scope 1: combustion 34.93 54.5 54.5 Total Scope 1 emissions 196.70 484.4 484.4 Scope 2: purchased energy 4,007.64 3,914.6 4,000.4 Total Scope 2 emissions 4,007.64 3,914.6 4,000.4 Total emissions 4,204.34 4,399.0 4,484.8 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY RATIO EMISSION TYPE TOTAL FOOTPRINT SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2 CO e 2 PREVIOUS YEAR CURRENT YEAR YEAR-ON-YEAR 2014-15 2015-16 VARIANCE Turnover 388.4m 456.3m 17% Intensity Ratio, location-based method tCO e 100,000 10.82 9.64 11% 2 Intensity Ratio, market-based method tCO e 100,000 N A 9.83 N A 2 EMISSION CATEGORY EMISSION SOURCE OPERATION OF FACILITY ELECTRICITY PURCHASED ENERGY NATURAL GAS COMBUSTION LPG OTHER DELIVERED FUELS F-GAS MANAGED VEHICLES 33 33 IG Gr IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 oup Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 By focusing on in-depth data analysis, were able to optimise client recruitment and client value, ultimately enhancing our profitability as a business.
Adam Dance Director of Business Development 34 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT 35 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
