E D A C R N N T A D A A W M L G E E R R R O N O F T W D R T N E H P A OUR PEOPLE Our people are the lifeblood of the service we deliver to our clients.
Their skills and passion drive our success in all aspects of our business, from designing and building innovative products and cutting-edge platforms to handling client queries professionally and resolving issues.
OUR VALUES OUR PEOPLE STRATEGY To ensure that we have the right people in place at every level Hallmark quality of the organisation, with the right skills and in the right locations, we have developed a five-year strategy.
This encompasses recruitment, training, career development and retention.
Passion for progress The strategy is in its first year, but is already yielding significant benefits.
Transparency in dealing Meritocratic opportunity Our success is founded on offering unparalleled access to financial markets, through market-leading platforms, tools, products and services, and presenting them with absolute clarity and integrity.
We take extremely seriously our responsibility to ensure that clients fully understand the technical nuances and the potential PEOPLE risks as well as the rewardsof our products.
STRATEGY By focusing on quality, transparency and fairness, we are able to build long-term relationships with the people who use our services.
We continually seek ways to further assist and engage with current or prospective clients.
We recognise that the strength of our team is pivotal in forging rewarding,  with our clients, and we are committed to recruiting the right talent and providing the best environment, culture, training and support for our people to flourish.
In 2016, IG was recognised as one of Britains Top Employers for the ninth year running.
This is testament to our positive workplace culture.
We are a global employer The Top Employer certification is awarded only to organisations that meet the highest standards in human resource management, with people in 17countries and we are very proud to be a long-standing recipient.
The award, by the Corporate Research Foundation, is based on a strong performance in each of the audited categories: pay We employ over 1,400staff and benefits, training and development, corporate culture and career development.
Over 90% of employees feel that there is a strong sense of teamwork and cooperation in IG We have been certified as one of Britains Top Employers for nine consecutive years 16 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 T N E D N E N W V M A I O R E Y R O R T I K N U R I M S N A A L E G C E N T M STRATEGIC REPORT Our goal is to align people with the overall organisational structure more effectively.
CLARITY AND MEASUREMENT PERFORMANCE AND REWARD We have established mechanisms to collect data that will help us Our goal is to align people with the overall organisational structure manage our people more effectively, and to communicate that more effectively.
This involves ensuring that we have the right data in clearer, more meaningful ways.
staff, in the best department structure and the optimum locations, to deliver the levels of product quality and customer service our For example, following the analysis of our attrition data, we were clients demand.
able to adjust some salaries to ensure our offer was attractive in the market.
In addition, we adjusted our performance During the year, therefore, we have determined the five key pillars evaluation process to align people more closely with business for our business success: and personalperformance KPIs and provide more regular, Clients meaningful feedback.
Delivery Returns Control People We have aligned the organisation to these pillars, with clear executive-level accountability.
We have also begun to expand our teams in Bangalore and Krakow to take advantage of local pools of talent, creating centralised hubs of expertise in IT, marketing and client service to support the global business.
In order to attract and retain the right people, we offer a competitive reward package to recognise performance and encourage our key talent to be part of our future.
We believe that working together as a team is vital to our global success.
Therefore, as well as offering a market-related salary structure that is regularly benchmarked, we include the majority of our employees in a group bonus scheme.
Bonus levels are linked to the financial success and ongoing stability of IG, and are based on both company and individual performance, as discussed during the annual appraisal process.
Bonuses are distributed at the end of each financial year.
The remainder of our employees who are not part of the main bonus scheme are included in specific sales-related bonus schemes.
We also reward our high-potential employees through long-term incentive plans.
Eoin McCoy Head of IG Poland We offer our employees in the UK, Australia and the US the chance to share in our success via our tax-advantaged share-purchase schemes.
An average of 37%of eligible employees took part in our share plans in 2016.
To complement these direct financial rewards, this year we are Our team in Krakow is  benefits across the UK.
selected from the local TALENT AND GROWTH pools of talent, and weve Having recruited good people, we also invest in them by ensuring that they have the appropriate training and gain the experience grown rapidly to become a required to perform their jobs effectively and help deliver the Groups strategy and business plan.
Staff at all levels and in key resource supporting the all functions across IG are supported and developed through global business.
effective appraisal reviews and career planning sessions.
Our newly introduced people strategy will ensure that in-house coaching expertise and mentoring supports our employees at all stages of their career, from induction to role transition, gaining technical knowledge and building leadership skills.
As an international company, we are also able to offer overseas development opportunities for selected individuals.
17 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED This year we recognised the increasing need to introduce a more In terms of development areas, we still have more to do in clearly transparent and formal succession-planning process.
This is both setting out career structures and advancement opportunities, and for the benefit of employees, making our people fully aware of in improving reward and recognition.
the career opportunities available to them, and also to ensure Our HR team has used the insights provided by the survey to continuity for the business when a key member of our team develop our new people strategy, which we believe will address the moves on.
areas where improvement is needed.
EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY We maintain our commitment to equality and diversity, recognising When the opportunity for that a broad workforce is fundamental to our business.
We welcome individuals who bring different approaches, perspectives a secondment toLondon and ideas.
By challenging customs and encouraging creativity, these people can support the business in successfully achieving came up, I was excited and its goals.
The Commercially and for every other best-practice reason, we are an equal-opportunities employer.
We strongly believe that to succeed experience and knowledge Ive as a global business, we need to make the most of the potential of the workforce in every country where we operate.
We have gained during my secondment extensive human resource policies in place to ensure that we attract the right people, and that those who join us can develop without are invaluable for my personal experiencing discrimination or harassment.
We continuously reinforce the need to treat all employees fairly, working to create and professional development.
an environment free from bullying, where people of all grades or positions enjoy dignity and respect.
We fully consider and encourage applications for employment Hui Shan Beh from disabled persons with aptitudes and abilities in line with Group Accountant our requirements.
Where existing employees become disabled, Finance on secondment from Melbourne temporarily or permanently, our policy is to provide continuing employment wherever practicable in the same or an alternative We continue to support our managers in their career progression position.
Appropriate training and or graduated back-to-work with our Inspirational Development programme, which focuses programmes, in conjunction with the occupational health on the outcomes of 360 feedback and the behaviours associated professionals, help achieve this aim.
All of our strategic and senior management team attend at least one structured programme, WELLBEING AND SAFETY and our more junior managers attend a Transition to Leadership We are fully committed to our employees health and wellbeing, programme, which specifically targets the process of developing providing private medical cover, permanent health insurance and from a technical specialist to a leader of people.
life assurance as benefits for all staff.
To help our people enjoy healthy lifestyles, our flexible benefits include reduced-price WORKING ENVIRONMENT gym membership.
We also offer savings on bicycles under the FLEXIBLE WORKING government-backed cycle-to-work initiative, as well as providing free-of-charge bicycle parking at our London office.
A confidential We believe that a vibrant, dynamic yet supportive culture is employee-assistance programme is available to all our Head Office central to employee engagement.
We aim to provide the right employees and their immediate families, offering a 24 7 telephone environment for our employees to thriveso they can give their counselling service for impartial advice on all matters, from housing best performance.
This year we will manifest this in major updates to the physical We are committed to offering each employee a safe and healthy office facilities and our working practices, introducing a hot-desk working environment.
By providing key members of staff with system.
With laptops replacing fixed desktop devices, our people the relevant external training, and all other staff with appropriate will enjoy a new flexibility to work in different project teams, at the in-house training, we ensure that we comply with all statutory office or remotely, according to their needs and preferences.
EMPLOYEE FEEDBACK COMMUNICATION We believe that understanding our employees perceptions, To recruit the talent we need, it is important for us to project the motivations or concerns and gathering their feedback is crucial to right messages about who we are and what we stand for as a help us formulate our people strategy and decide which employee business.
These messages must also be clear and accurate, to engagement initiatives to take forward, so this year we again ensure we set the right expectations forour new joiners.
We are partnered with IBM to deliver our employee engagement survey, constantly evaluating perceptions of IG as an employer, looking at and were delighted to achieve an 89% response rate.
ways to communicate more effectively with our present and future Highlights include the finding that over 90% of our employees staff in the different countries where we operate.
feel that there is excellent cooperation and a strong sense of Initiatives have included the launch of a new, improved intranet and teamwork within their departments.
They also report that IG shows the appointment of company-wide engagement champions who a strong commitment to ethical business conduct, that managers can facilitate two-way communication between staff and the human treat their teams with respect and that the senior leadership team resources and senior management teams.
is committed to providing high-quality products and services to clients.
18 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT In terms of gender, our workforce is made up as follows at 31 May 2016: BOARD TEAM MEMBERS FEMALE 2 FEMALE 368 MALE 5 MALE 928 PERCENTAGE FEMALE 29% PERCENTAGE FEMALE 28% PERCENTAGE MALE 71% PERCENTAGE MALE 72% SENIOR LEADERSHIP TOTAL TEAM FEMALE 390 FEMALE 3 MALE 1018 MALE 17 PERCENTAGE FEMALE 28% PERCENTAGE FEMALE 15% PERCENTAGE MALE 72% PERCENTAGE MALE 85% SENIOR COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT MANAGEMENT TEAM We are keen to encourage our people to engage in activities that both help their own development and contribute to local FEMALE 17 communities, so we are proud to support a wide variety of charities MALE 68 that are close to our employees hearts.
We match any funds our PERCENTAGE FEMALE 19% employees have raised for sponsored events.
PERCENTAGE MALE 81% To make the most of charitable donations, we continue to work with the Charities Aid Foundation, allowing our employees to operate a charity fund and make contributions to selected charities from gross earnings, directly from their monthly pay.
Not only do we support charities with gifts of money, but also by providing time and resources.
Our absence-management policy offers the opportunity for our people to take up voluntary work, for which we grant additional leave on a like-for-like basis up to a maximum of five matched days per annual leave year.
Joining IG as a developer, I didnt see my leadership potential.
Ive been empowered and given training, mentoring and support, and now I head a software engineering team.
IG helped me grow in my career.
Lidia Oosthuizen Technical team lead 19 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
