28 IMI plc Corporate responsibility Our approach Our ambition is for IMI to become a truly great company that is preferred by all its stakeholders because of our market leading products and services and the way we operate all aspects of our business.
We achieve this by maintaining a long-term focus, investing in our future and at all times operating our business in an ethical and responsible way.
This approach is fundamental to delivering sustainable profitable growth.
Mark Selway Chief Executive IMI Critical Engineers are world-class, solving customers major challenges Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our people Geoff Tranfield Group Human Resources Director We employ some 11,000 people around the world.
On a daily basis they are tasked with delivering our strategy and the progress IMI has made this year is down to their hard work.
To ensure that this progress continues, we must continue to attract and retain good people, ensure we have relevant skills and leadership capabilities across the Group and foster a positive working environment which provides our people with development and engagement opportunities.
Shaping our culture - The IMI Way At the heart of making IMI a great company are our values and behaviours which, in conjunction with the launch of our new strategy, were refreshed and rolled out across the Group in 2014.
These values and behaviours, which help shape our culture and outline the standards and conduct everyone in the Group should comply with, are integral to The IMI Way which defines how we do business.
Reviewed and endorsed by the Board our IMI values and behaviours are now embedded in all aspects of our business including our recruitment and induction processes, our bi-annual management performance assessments and our succession planning.
As outlined on page 11 of this Strategic Report, connecting and collaborating with colleagues across the Group to share best practice and establish consistent Group-wide standards and process is one of our key enablers helping us deliver our strategic plan.
This way of working, which is improving our competitiveness and profitability, is becoming common practice across IMI.
Collaborative projects undertaken during the year included:- Precision Engineerings enhanced range of compressed air the transfer of specialist value engineering resource and preparation units have been developed in conjunction with skills from Precision Engineering to Critical Engineering our Hydronic Engineering division.
The range incorporates has enhanced Critical Engineerings world class capabilities one of Hydronic Engineerings new world-class ball valve and has helped the division win new orders in excess of designs, which provides excellent value for money, great 80 million at our historic margin levels while still delivering, performance and is perfectly matched to the needs of on average, a 20% cost reduction for our customers.
In addition, the new product offering is manufactured on a new automated assembly system, developed, designed and built by Our mindset Hydronics Polish-based assembly system supplier, which has resulted in reduced costs and lead times.
This new product range enhances Precision Engineerings customer offering and creates a new market for one of Hydronic Engineerings existing products: Engineering GREAT together Connect Deliver Lead Learn Improve Behaviours: 30 IMI plc Corporate responsibility Our people contd teams participated in an e-learning Our work environment programme to raise awareness of slavery In addition to reinforcing the IMI values and human trafficking to ensure neither and behaviours across our business take place in either our own or our we are committed to ensuring that all suppliers businesses.
employees and workers are treated fairly We encourage all employees to report in an environment which is free from any to their manager any incident that form of discrimination with regard to the is not in keeping with the IMI values nine protected characteristics outlined and behaviours.
We also operate a in the Equality Act 2010, which are age, A group of our graduates receive a tour of Hydronic confidential independent compliance religion, race, sex, disability, gender Engineerings facility in Poland hotline in more than 20 languages reassignment, marriage civil partnership, which employees can use to report pregnancy and maternity and sexual a charity that pr ovides food to families issues anonymously.
Further detail about our on low incomes in and around Selangor, is reviewed on a monthly basis by the Diversity and Inclusion Policy, which was Malaysia: Groups Ethics and Compliance revised in 2014, is set out below in the Committee, which I chair, and all reports paragraph titled Diversity and Inclusion.
a home for the terminally ill in Bangalor e are investigated thoroughly and, where and Sai Kripa, a charitable organisation required, appropriate action is taken to which provides food, shelter and The IMI Code resolve issues quickly.
During 2016 48 education for homeless and orphan cases were reported via the hotline It is essential that we run our business in children in India: which compared to 97 in 2015 and an ethical way with the highest standards Newlands Bishop Farm near Solihull 103 in 2014. of integrity.
As part of their induction, that provides opportunities for people every employee who joins the Group with learning disabilities and mental receives training in relation to our Code of Community activities health problems to learn work-based Conduct the Code, which covers antiskills, in the UK: Consistent with our values we believe we bribery, anti-corruption and fair market have a responsibility to the communities competition.
Refresher training on the a school for disabled childr en in Bad around the world in which we operate.
Code is provided regularly as appropriate Oeynhausen, Germany: and In addition to creating jobs and investing and is reinforced through face-to-face a r ehabilitation centre for recovering in our local communities, each year sessions at the annual IMI Way Day.
alcoholics in Paju, South Korea.
employees across the Group participate During the year Code training was in what has become known as The IMI enhanced by the introduction of a Way Day during which they receive faceCode on-line www.
com  number of e-learning programmes to-face refresher training on both The which utilise the Groups global intranet IMI Way and the Code and spend time that employees, regardless of location, supporting a local community charity or are able to access.
As well as being the right thing to Group-wide e-learning module focused do, these initiatives contribute to the local specifically on anti-bribery and anticommunity, help build trust and reinforce corruption.
The module was completed our team building and collaborative across our businesses within six weeks.
Some of the local charities In October, as part of our supplier our employees supported during the evaluation process, all our purchasing 2016 IMI Way Day included: Colleagues from Critical Engineering and Precision Employees from IMI Buschjost support a local school for Employees receive face-to-face training on The IMI Engineering collaborate during The IMI Way Day children and young adults with disabilities at their sportsday Way Day at Hydronic Engineerings facility in Brazil Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 reflect the location of our operations, Attracting good customers and markets.
Additionally, when creating shortlists for internal and people external vacancies, we insist that external recruiters take account of our policy and, as part of our internal management Recruitment performance process, each Divisional Our performance and our ability to Managing Director is set objectives aimed I joined IMI in 2015 after I execute our strategy is dependent on at improving diversity in their division.
graduated from The University of recruiting the best people with the most These objectives include an ambition to Nottingham with a BEng Hons relevant skills and experience who are recruit local talent and during 2016 much Mechanical Engineering degree.
aligned with our values and behaviours progress was made in this area.
By way and our strategic ambition.
During Previously I had done an internship of example, at the end of December 2014 the year we continued to improve our at IMIs business in Bristol working across the Group, 32 of our management recruitment processes.
In particular within the Research & Development or senior technical roles were undertaken our graduate programme, which was R&D team, where I had the by expatriate employees on secondment refreshed at the beginning of 2015, opportunity to see first-hand how from their home country.
Today only continued to go from strength to strength 11 of these positions are undertaken the graduate scheme operated.
as we recruited twice as many graduates by expatriates who have returned to In particular, I was attracted by in 2016 31 compared to 2014 15. roles in their home countries and have the schemes focus on development been replaced by talent developed or and the chance to gain experience recruited locally.
in diverse aspects of the business Diversity and Inclusion through different placements.
During 2016 our approach to diversity At IMI we believe it is essential that we Currently I am in the middle of my and inclusion was further embedded employ and retain the very best people third of four six month placements by the addition of a number of diversity to serve our global business and our in a Project Management role awareness training programmes.
In 2015, a within the Global Procurement leadership development programme, revised Diversity and Inclusion Policy team, where I am working on a Leading the Way to Engineering was embedded in the recruitment and number of supplier monitoring GREAT, includes a session on diversity other human resource processes and and inclusion and we have piloted a tools including a procurement procedures that we operate across standalone e-learning programme on dashboard and supplier scorecard.
By applying this policy, diversity, which employees can access During my previous placements we aim to recruit the best people to via our global intranet.
I was part of the Operations team execute our strategic priorities and to in Precisions UK Poole based business, where I focused on implementing a new system to improve efficiency and reduce Gender mix across the Group downtimes on machines, and before that I worked at Precisions Female Female % Male Male % business in Leeds in the R&D All 3,157 27% 8,575 73% function where we carried out employees competitor product tear-downs Managers 223 20% 901 80% and I was part of the team Senior 104 16% 530 84% developing concept designs for managers a next-generation product.
Board 2 22% 7 78% directors Sinneli Jayampathy IMI Precision Engineering A group of 2015 intake graduates undertake a mock lean audit at Hydronic Engineerings facility in Poland as part of their development workshop 32 IMI plc IMI plc Corporate responsibility Our people contd IMIs 2016 graduate intake during their two week induction at HQ over 8,000 employees around the When I joined Operations Fast Developing Group participated in e-learning modules Track I was assigned a mentor, on a wide range of business specific Hydronic Engineerings, our people topics as well as training in relation to Operations Director, who has anti-bribery and anti-corruption and provided advice and support to Development programmes diversity and inclusion, both of which me throughout the programme.
To achieve our strategy we must In addition to improving my continue to ensure that our employees Our Operations Fast Track programme, technical capabilities, I have had have the relevant business and which runs for 12 months and covers the opportunity to improve my leadership capabilities.
both professional and personal people management skills and the development, was first launched in In 2016 around 100 people participated programme has also accelerated our Hydronic Engineering division in in our Leading the way to engineering my personal development, April 2015 and has continued to be Great programme, which is focused including presentation techniques rolled-out across the division during on our senior management team and and language skills.
The programme focuses potential future leaders.
In addition, month secondment to Hydronics on our next generation of managers across the Group, 200 people joined Operations team in Sweden, and its main objective is to accelerate our Being a Great IMI Manager where I headed-up the production their development and create internal development programme which is department, provided great succession candidates.
targeted at employees who have recently insight into another part of the been promoted to a management role.
Hydronic division and also The programmes two and a half day helped me to further develop training course was run in China, the my leadership skills.
Czech Republic, Germany, the UK and the US and, in 2017, the programme will be further extended to include Italy, Felix Bmer Hydronic Engineering - Poland and Sweden.
Value Stream Leader, Globo and Special Valves, IMI Learn, our e-learning platform which Germany is hosted on our global intranet, was launched in February and during 2016 Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 When I graduated from Inha University in South Korea, I was attracted by IMI Critical Engineerings graduate programme, primarily because it offered practical engineering experience and the opportunity to work in different geographic locations.
The programmes induction and training workshop, which all new graduates During a week of development activities for our 2015 intake of graduates, one of IMI Precision Engineerings current graduates participate in, was extremely presents his most recent project to his peers in the Czech Republic helpful.
It provided a good insight into IMI and its business and it enabled all the graduates to get across our businesses and all Succession planning to know each other and build a management who attend are required network which is very active.
During the year as part of the talent and to share conference key messages I am now at the start of my second succession process, we again undertook with their broader teams.
The Groups placement, based in California an extensive review of our management financial results, strategic progress at IMI CCI RSM, working as a succession plans to ensure that we have and important initiatives in areas such strength and depth of leadership talent Project Engineer on new design as health and safety are communicated across the Group.
The performance of modifications for our customers through a number of mechanisms our managers was assessed against in the fossil power and LNG including regular town hall meetings.
a number of criteria including leadership sectors.
Prior to that I was a We also work with our European skills, values and behaviours and their Design Engineer in IMI CCI Korea Works Council, covering 11 countries businesss performance.
The findings across Europe, to further encourage involved in the development of of this process have been used to build effective employee communication a number of products which are individual development plans and inform and engagement.
now in their manufacturing phase our future planning, thereby ensuring which is very exciting to see.
Twice a year we publish our cross that we have a pipeline of high calibre To date, the graduate programme divisional magazine, the IMI Eye, which talent throughout the Group.
has provided me with the practical features news stories generated by engineering experience I had our businesses around the world and hoped for.
Learning new things is distributed in multiple languages to Engaging while working on live projects employees and key stakeholders.
can be challenging, but I am our people We gather feedback from employees surrounded by colleagues who are annually.
This takes the form of a survey At IMI we also recognise that we always willing to help, give advice that is completed at the end of the IMI must retain good people.
In addition and share their knowledge.
Way Day and covers a number of key to the development opportunities areas.
All survey feedback is reviewed outlined above, providing a positive JiEun Kim and areas where understanding needs working environment which enables IMI Critical Engineering to be improved or potential concerns are our employees to understand the identified and further investigated via a contribution they make and be fully pulse survey a quick and effective real engaged is key to our success.
time survey that gathers further detail The global intranet has been in the relevant part of the business.
instrumental in keeping employees If required, based on the pulse data informed and connected across the information, appropriate actions are Group and it has also facilitated crossput in place to resolve issues and business collaboration and the sharing clarify understanding.
In terms of face-to-face engagement our annual Group and divisional conferences, which involve our top 350 managers, serve as a catalyst to cascade information MAX IMPROVING NEEDS WORK 34 IMI plc Corporate responsibility Our operations and products Health & Safety The health and safety of our employees and the health and safety of our other stakeholders, including our customers and suppliers, is paramount.
This unconditional commitment to health and safety is also consistent with our strategy to significantly improve the operational performance and the efficiency of our businesses.
By prioritising health and safety and reducing the occurrence of incidents, we will also minimise the time spent investigating Early in 2016, IMI CCI Korea celebrated 2,000 days with no lost time accidents issues, reduce the amount of time lost to absence and sick leave and save on legal, The ten attributes of safety - fourth round insurance and medical costs.
assessment average HSE scores by division Our ambition is to achieve world-class Contractors & health and safety performance.
To ensure Site Systems that we realise this, we have embedded Accident a proactive continuous improvement Management Investigation approach to health and safety across our entire organisation and during the year we made significant progress.
The number of Lost Time Accidents significantly reduced in 2016 15 in 2016 compared to 31 in 2015 and a number of our facilities have Performance Signage recorded significant periods of zero Lost Tracking Time Accidents, including IMI CCI Korea in our Critical Engineering division, which in July 2016 marked 2,000 days without a Lost Time Accident.
Our proactive approach to health and Environmental Capability safety, which is aimed at continuously Protection improving the identification and remediation of safety weaknesses in our processes and procedures and the removal of potential hazards in our facilities, covers all operations and all Tool Provision Machinery & levels of management and includes: Guarding & Care a rigorous bi-annual assessment of the Risk ten operational and safety areas we Assessment IMI Critical Engineering consider most important in order to keep our employees free from harm and our IMI Precision Engineering operations effective and efficient.
IMI Hydronic Engineering This assessment process, which is World-class combined with the bi-annual lean benchmarking reviews further details Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Machine assisted welding provides additional safety for our employees of which are set out on pages 14 to 17, first aid treatment, a report is issued to is undertaken by specialist health and the relevant divisional management safety experts in each operating unit team and a remediation plan is agreed which drives greater ownership of the and implemented: and process and ensures that health and regular health and safety training for safety is embedded in each business.
all employees: every employee who Each local assessment is then joins IMI receives relevant health and independently reviewed by one of the safety training as part of their induction Group or Divisional Health and Safety and where appropriate, participates champions and a combined Lean-HSE Product testing at Precision Engineerings facility in in further on-site training focused on report is produced which measures Shanghai, China hazard identification, risk assessment progress since the last assessment, and action planning.
In addition, identifies potential hazards, confirmed the need to reinforce our site management is responsible for recommends remedial actions and efforts on hand injuries and in detailed health and safety Gemba targets further overall improvements.
response, a Group-wide campaign Walks, a lean manufacturing term All assessments are posted on the focusing specifically on hand safety used to describe the personal Group intranet which ensures was launched recently: observation of work which involves performance is visible and facilitates a detailed physical review of the real time monitoring of our health and the sharing of best practice across factory to observe and identify real safety performance: during the year all of our businesses.
In addition, time potential hazards and risks.
the Group enhanced our HSE 360 the combined Lean-HSE reports This, in addition to our bi-annual IT system which operates in all our are analysed to identify any commonly assessment process described above, facilities to track any and every incident recurring Group-wide hazards which has made a measurable impact on which requires first aid or any other require specific remedial action.
During both our Lean-HSE scores and medical intervention.
In addition, in the the year this analysis, combined with accident reduction.
case of an incident requiring more than scrutiny of our accident reports, 36 IMI plc IMI plc Corporate responsibility Our operations and products contd IMI Hydronic Engineering uses paints which are water based or free of volatile organic compounds on all its pressurisation vessels to ensure minimal impact on the environment and a healthy working environment for our employees Precision Engineerings Fellbach facility Our in Germany installed a new boiler for their heating system that is estimated operations will achieve annual savings of some 300 tonnes of CO2 and 100,000: and We have a responsibility to IMI CCIs Brno plant in the Czech minimise the environmental Republic and IMI Truflo Marines impact of our day-to-day operation in Birmingham, England, operations.
upgraded lighting and lighting controls Employees at Precision Engineerings facility in Shanghai, and are anticipating a combined 300 Given the nature of our production China, inspect a pneumatic manifold for a customer tonne reduction in CO2 emissions each processes, our main focus is on energy year, with an investment payback on efficiency.
Historically we have regularly As detailed on pages 14 to 17, we have these improvements in under two years.
conducted internal reviews of our energy made significant progress in improving usage.
In 2015, in accordance with the During the year we continued to make the operational efficiency of our facilities European Union Energy Directive, we good progress to reduce our CO2e through the application of lean processes.
augmented this process by undertaking emissions.
In 2015 we set our minimum A key part of the lean process is the independent energy assessment surveys baseline performance at 61,250 tonnes elimination of waste and during the year, across our major European operations.
and during 2016, we reduced this further the improvement in the Groups inventory Data and recommendations from these by 2%.
In keeping with our continuous turns has freed up 9.6m in cash.
surveys were collated and fed into our improvement culture, we will look to Group-wide energy efficiency programme deliver further reductions year on year.
that was developed and rolled out during the course of the year.
This programme has delivered a number of efficiency improvements including: Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our products We design and manufacture products that help our customers operate their systems and processes safely, cleanly and cost effectively.
We also sell products that directly help to tackle some of the biggest issues facing the world today including global warming and resource scarcity.
High Integrity Pressure Protection Systems HIPPS, designed by our Critical Engineering division, and installed in pipelines and processing plants, control the build-up of fluid and gas pressure in the system and ensure safe operation whilst avoiding harmful emissions being released into the atmosphere.
HIPPS unit, designed by IMI CCI, provides the highest safety levels and zero emissions Collapsible handrail, actuated with pneumatic cylinders.
Courtesy of Booth Engineering We continuously look at our products to see how they can better satisfy customer needs The new IMI Maxseal solenoid valve, designed and produced by our Precision Engineering division, for a wide range of Oil & Gas applications, uses less power helping customers save energy without sacrificing reliability or performance.
Eclipse, the thermostatic radiator valve, designed and manufactured by our Hydronic Engineering division, delivers a constant room temperature which enhances the efficiency of the heating system and saves on energy costs.
