STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY AT INFORMA A COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITY RECOGNISING THE BREADTH OF SUSTAINABILITY 2016 marked the tenth anniversary of Informas Group-wide In 2016, the Group took the opportunity to review the breadth sustainability programme.
It was a year in which we took the ofactivities taking place under its sustainability programme.
opportunity to re-evaluate our approach and bring new thinking Therole of head of sustainability was created, reporting to the and enhanced governance to support the programme in its Director of investor relations, corporate communications and second decade.
brand, andan experienced executive hired in May 2016.
A DECADE OF ACHIEVEMENTS AND LEARNING The priority since has been to analyse where sustainability When the Informa UK Corporate Responsibility Committee was canbetter align to the Companys strategy under the Growth established in 2006, its priorities included overseeing major Acceleration Plan, and add value to the businesss roadmap central fundraising activities, encouraging the use of sustainable rather than divert resources, as well as considering whether materials throughout the Group, conserving energy, minimising wecan create more competitive advantage from our wastage in our operations and, more broadly, ensuring Informa investmentin sustainability.
was a responsible member of society.
Over the year, nearly 300 colleagues across the Group Over time, we understood that the most significant impact wereinvolved in testing whether the four pillar approach to Informa has on society today is through how the content, sustainability was still relevant.
They agreed it was, and as a connections and insight we deliverthrough academic publishing, result of their answers, we have updated the pillars to reflect niche business information products and sector-focused industry abroader view of how our activities impact others.
events are used by hundreds of specialist groups to solve individual business, marketand societal challenges that impact CONTENT many more peoplethan our immediate audiences.
This type of Informas products are the Groups most impact hascommercial valuefor the Group and value for significant impact and differentiator.
Specifically, customers andthe communities we serve.
the work colleagues do tocreate and share knowledge and insight with those who need it In 2013, this led us to work with the Responsible Media Forum, sothey can reach better and more informed decisions: and apartnership between 25 international media companies, to Informas role in creating the platforms and networks that bring identify and assess what stakeholders believe the most material communities together and foster greater collaboration.
By matters are in the media sector.
This identified four distinct providing the content that stakeholders need to solve their areas content, communities, colleagues and the environment challenges, Informa retains business and customers, and makes whichhas formed the basis of our sustainability activities and itself relevant and valuable to specialist markets.
It also enables reporting since.
change that contributes to solving many of societys economic, social and environmental challenges.
The priority has been to analyse where sustainability can better align to the Companys GAP strategy and add value Read more in Informas 2016 Sustainability Report at informa.
com sustainability 32 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Walk the World, Informas 2016 charity initiative, raised over 112,000 and brought colleagues together.
COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT Historically, many companies, including Informa, The Groups direct consumption of natural have defined communities as the neighbours resources is relatively limited, but we recognise around their offices.
Now and in the future, we theimportance of understanding and controlling intend to consider the Groups broader role within impacts where possible and managing greenhouse the specialist communities served by our activities, and gas emissions is one of our key non-financial performance investigate the opportunity to play a larger part in those indicators.
In2017 the Group intends to look more closely communities.
Opportunities include connecting different partners atindirect environmental impacts including our digital carbon in life sciences to solve rare disease, and helping recruit talent footprint, emissions from flights to events, and the materials into an industry that we work closely with.
relationships and actively contributes to those communities.
BOLDER STEPS IN 2017 The Group is equally committed to working closely, and in a The approach many companies are taking to sustainability has sustainable manner, with suppliers and other business partners.
evolved over the last decade and, whilst Informas approach has Our support for the principles laid out in the Universal Declaration also developed, we believe that 2017 will be a year to significantly of Human Rights continues.
Within the Group, our major human update our activities.
rights impacts relate to colleagues and contractors, the product The Group will focus efforts in a more concentrated way on the supply chain and products themselves.
most business-relevant areas of the four updated sustainability The practices that underlie how each Division and team engages pillars, and particularly on activities that have the potential to with the supply chain are described on the Informa website, as make the most difference to Informas customer communities part our statement on the Modern Slavery Act.
As part of the and content.
Groups compliance with the Modern Slavery Act, the Board The objectives will be to support the delivery of growth for hasapproved this statement.
Informa under GAP, the creation of benefits for Shareholders andbroader value for other stakeholders.
This will come through COLLEAGUES increased colleague engagement and providing support for Informas commitment to colleagues remains Informas niche communities as they address their most paramount, and some of the investments being important challenges.
made in talent within the Group are detailed in the We are bringing new governance to how the sustainability next section.
The motivation, creativity and programme is directed within the Group by establishing engagement of colleagues is central to the Groups success, and asustainability advisory panel, comprising a diverse set of through providing opportunity and a welcoming and supporting colleagues from around the business.
The panel will work closely environment, we hope to attract and retain the right talent with the Groups Executive Management Team to oversee the needed for the future.
programmes long-term focus, linking with external parties where appropriate and taking on board feedback and suggestions from colleagues and other stakeholders alike.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
