STRATEGIC REPORT OUR TALENTED PEOPLE INVESTING IN TALENT FOR SUSTAINABLE SUCCESS Informa colleagues are the Groups most important resource.
Every day, they individually and collectively provide the creativity, insight, content, connections and support that positively impacts our diverse customer base and markets.
Informa aims to support and encourage them to be the best they can be.
34 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com ur aim is to maintain and promote a supportive, 77% of colleagues said diverse and inclusive environment in which colleagues can use their energy and ambition O tomake a difference at work and within the they would recommend community.
In 2016, we invested in a number ofareas to enhance the experience colleagues have when Informa as a good place theyjoin Informa and work anywhere across the Group.
to work INVESTING TO ATTRACT THE BEST TALENT There are two formal schemes that attract young talent to the Group, at school leaver and university graduate level, and many other entry level positions.
Informas Graduate Fellowship Scheme targets high-achieving Building on 2015 activities, the diversity and inclusion working group individuals to bring fresh ideas and unique skills to the Group.
soft-launched the AllInforma initiative in 2016, taking an international Over a two-year period, Fellows undertake five placements and cross-generational approach to considering howwe develop across Divisions and in different roles, spending a period in talent and offer new opportunities and forums tocolleagues.
This oneof our businesses outside the UK.
will be rolled out formally across the Group in2017, with the launch of two colleague networks a womens forum and a youth forum Two 2015 Fellows secured permanent roles in the Group during alongside initiatives including new mentoring opportunities.
Full 2016, and the remainder complete the programme in summer information on the Groups composition by gender can be found 2017.
Eight Fellows joined in 2016, and there are ambitions to inthe Nomination Committee Report on page 83. extend the scheme into the US.
Inside Informa For UK school leavers, during 2016, the Apprenticeship Scheme In 2016, the first Group-wide conversation, Inside Informa, successfully piloted by the European Shared Services Centre, was gaveeveryone the opportunity to have their say on many expanded to Global Supports technology team, with the intention to aspectsof work life within the Company.
Over 70% of colleagues widen apprenticeship opportunities into other Divisions from 2017. participated, producing an encouraging overall engagement score of 71%, with valuable feedback gathered and a benchmark During 2016, we also developed recommended recruitment set to inform future talent management.
practices to promote a consistent and high-quality approach tohow we engage with prospective colleagues at all levels, and 77% of colleagues said they would recommend Informa as ensure a broad and diverse range of candidates is considered.
agood place to work, and 85% understood how their role contributed to team and Divisional objectives.
Feedback also ENGAGING AND DEVELOPING TOGETHER indicated a desire for more outlets to engage with and challenge, Informa strongly believes in the value of diversity.
Our ability to provide andsome colleagues said more could be done to celebrate specialist knowledge in hundreds of markets and connect with success using rewards other than financial.
different people across the world comes from recruiting and retaining a broad mix of talented people from diverse backgrounds.
We aim to Following this feedback, in 2017 Informa is investing in a new maintain a working environment that is welcoming and stimulating, digital workspace for colleagues called Portal.
With in-built social enjoyable and rewarding, and combines personal freedom with collaboration and engagement tools, direct access to technology opportunities to participateand exchange views and ideas.
and personalised information feeds, it provides a single platform to help colleagues connect, engage and work smarter.
ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT Much importance is placed on the quality and frequency of colleague communications, and we use various channels to keepcolleagues informed about performance, strategy and key business activity.
Communication begins at the top, with monthly blogs and quarterly Town Hall Calls by the Group CEO that enable colleagues to ask questions and learn about developments.
Divisional CEOs also use newsletters, presentations and site visits to keep colleagues informed, engaged and enthused.
Rachel Motekaitis, Senior Show Manager, Dallas, US I was part of Walk the World 2016 and helped organise the Dallas hike through our local area.
Raising money for charity alongside thousands of other colleagues helped us feel we were contributing to something bigger than our team, and bigger than the company.
Informas training and development activities focus on formal accreditation specific to job roles that helps career progression.
Outside of this, colleagues are encouraged to contribute to Divisional and Group-wide projects beyond their regular roles, todevelop skills, build networks and explore new challenges.
There is a network of 50 Sustainability Champions who contribute to Company initiatives on a local level, and over 100 people volunteered to run office-based engagement activities to supportthe launch of Portal.
Walk the World, Informas global charity initiative, is another forum Nitasha Devasar, for colleagues to engage with one another as well as the wider Managing Director, community.
Launched in 2016, over 2,000 colleagues from Delhi, India across the world took part in more than 25 charity walks, My team was raisingmore than 112,000 in the process.
shortlisted for two categories in the REWARDING AND SHARING SUCCESS 2016 Informa Awards.
Informa provides the opportunity for colleagues to have a greater Everyone was sense of ownership in the Groups strategy and performance with delighted and excited ShareMatch, a share incentive plan available to colleagues in the being recognised by UK, US, UAE, Australia, Germany, the Netherlands, Singapore colleagues and peers and Sweden.
internationally has From 2017, the Group is investing to improve ShareMatchs given Team India a terms, so colleagues receive one free share for every share massive boost!
These Awards are a powerful purchased, subject to a three-year holding period.
The previous celebration of offer was one free share for every two purchased.
The 1,000 individual and colleagues joining the Group from Penton will be invited tojoin collaborative works ShareMatch for the 2017 plan year.
Each year, the Group holds the Informa Awards, to celebrate success, exceptional contributions and outstanding performance.
Shortlisted nominees attend a reception in central London thatisstreamed live to offices across the world, with winners showcased internally.
There were record entries for the2016Awards.
Liam Bojas, FTSE 100 PEOPLE INDEX Customer Operations Specialist, Colchester, UK As an apprentice, I supported No.
9 the Academic Publishing and Business Intelligence Divisions.
COLLEAGUES PARTICIPATING I learnt lots about operations and IN SHAREMATCH customer management, from queries to billing, systems and processes, and about Informas 970 markets too.
Its been great to work while training: I now have a RAISED BY WALK THE WORLD permanent role and can see how my career can progress further.
INITIATIVE 112,000 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 360 EXHIBITION PRODUCERS 300 MANAGING EDITORS 500 INDUSTRY ANALYSTS 35 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT ACADEMIC PUBLISHING HIGH-QUALITY SPECIALIST CONTENT AND KNOWLEDGE ROGER HORTON The Academic Publishing Division publishes over 132,500 CEO of Academic Publishing specialist books and 2,500 journals in print and digital across a range of specialist subjects.
Operating as the Taylor & Francis Group, it is recognised as one of the worlds leading upper level academic publishers through its five main imprints: Taylor & Francis, Routledge, CRC Press, Garland Science and CogentOA.
PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENTS IN 2016 The Division delivered a consistent operating performance in 2016, with good growth in Journals balanced by continued softness in Books, particularly in the US.
A combination of market factors dampened demand for books, notably in first year undergraduate textbooks, where the Division has limited exposure.
Focus remained on improving operational fitness whilst investing in depth of content, product innovation and new technology capabilities.
This saw us consolidate books operations into a single global business, improving efficiency and increasing flexibility to meet evolving customer needs.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Both our Books and Journal businesses are largely focused onupper level academic publishing, which provides a degree ofprotection from structural headwinds affecting the wider 490.4m educational market.
As described on page 15, upper level Revenue 2015: 447.4m students final year undergraduates, post-graduates and researchers have generally made a long-term commitment to asubject area, and have a different relationship with the 187.2m subject and its materials than those covering topics for a single semester.
They often specialise in a particular niche, and in Adjusted operating profit 2015: 164.8m turn need highly specialist research and content, accessed either through libraries, university departments, their institution or individual purchases and subscriptions.
0.3% The Division continued to pursue new initiatives in 2016, making Organic revenue growth 2015: 1.6% good progress with its GAP investments, which are largely focused on increasing content discoverability, improving customer analytics and developing our range of author services.
This resulted in the launch of a new digital portal, described 9.6% overleaf, and improvements to the Taylor & Francis Online site, Reported revenue growth 2015: 9.4% increasing content retrieval and making it fully responsive.
Journals continued to build its position in open access publishing, the alternative funding and content access model 36% inwhich publications are funded by the author, institution or Contribution to Informa Group revenue 2015: 37% 37 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT ACADEMIC PUBLISHING CONTINUED research body and articles are made free at the point of use.
Open access publishing remains a growing feature of the Revenue comes through fees rather than subscriptions.
Simba Information reports that the number of open access articles published annually is growing In 2016, we published 108 dedicated open access journals, attwice the rate of the overall market for articles a strong including 20 science, technology, engineering and medical rationale for the investment in building and accelerating our journals that converted from a subscription to an open access openaccess business.
The Division made some targeted investments in new titles, including the purchase of 35 journals The transition from print to digital continues.
Journals have rapidly from CoAction Publishing.
migrated online, and digital journals allow readers to cite other research and hyperlink to related articles, making research The Division is also pursuing innovation in its approach to sales, moreefficient.
All our journals are available digitally and the to maximise the use of content and capture new funding.
In 2016, vastproportion of usage of our journal content is online.
this included the launch of digital archive products including Secret Files from World Wars to Cold War and a South Asia The digital transition in books is more measured as customers Archives file, representing new revenue streams.
continue to prefer physical books at an upper level.
We take an agnostic approach, with fully digital production, and delivery in the format the customer chooses.
During 2016, around 25% of our book sales were ebooks.
Focus remained on improving operational fitness whilst investing in depth of content, product innovation and new technology capabilities MARKET TRENDS PRIORITIES AND PROSPECTS FOR 2017 The market for upper level academic publishing reflects The outlook remains positive, underpinned by the strength of macrofactors, including growth in students and researchers theJournals business, which continues to grow consistently andtrends in research and development funding.
It is a global andhas high renewal rates and strong cash generation.
The US and predominantly English-language market, with research book market is expected to remain soft in the near-term, which developments and specialist content travelling across borders will continue to impact growth in the Books business, albeit within subject category communities.
ourdifferentiated focus on the upper level segment provides someprotection.
Projected growth rates for students entering tertiary education are higher in developing markets.
The OECD predicts that China The business will undergo a change of leadership in 2017, when and India will account for almost half of the expected 300 million Divisional CEO Roger Horton retires.
Roger has led the Division 25-34 year olds with tertiary education in 2030, whilst European for over 10 years and has been part of the business for over Union countries and the US will account for less than 25%.
In 25years, and Rogers successor is expected to take up their developed markets such as the US, higher education enrolment position by the end of the first half of 2017. is more subdued, reflecting the relatively strong economy and With operational strength, ongoing investment in content and high employment rates.
platforms and a continued focus on efficiency, there is confidence In turn, we continue to invest in building our presence in the Division can deliver another positive performance in 2017 developing markets, particularly China.
The proportion of article anddeliver organic growth at least similar to 2016, with submissions from the region is rising, with 70,000 China-based strongmargins.
researchers published in our journals in 2015, 16% of our author base that year, and nearly five times the amount of 2010.
To cater for this growth and expand our offering, in 2016 we launched adedicated online hub for Chinas academic community, withinformation and resources on how to become published providedin Mandarin, plus a single gateway to all our content.
38 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 1.
HELPING CUSTOMERS DISCOVER, ACCESS AND USE CONTENT BETTER BALAJI DEVARAJAN 490.4M Director, Digital Products Group Academic Publishing 2.
Taylor & Francis, which forms our Academic Publishing Division, is known for the depth of 4. its specialist content.
Indeed, its content from 490.4M over 200 years ago is still being read today, alongside the latest research.
As information and research is increasingly consumed online, eroding the distinction between book chapters and journal articles, DIVISIONAL REVENUE there is an opportunity to create more BY GEOGRAPHY connections between content types, making 1.
UK 13% content more discoverable and searchable, 2.
North America 51% and to fully embrace the power of digitisation 3.
Continental Europe 12% to maximise customer value.
Rest of the World 24% One of the Divisions investment projects, funded by GAP, is creating a single unified destination for all books, journals, archive and other digital content, and global journals content.
The initiative will bring content together on a central, scalable, more robust and cloud-based platform, with optimised search and full e-commerce capabilities.
This will give customers a single, easy-to-use access point to Taylor & Francis content, generating usage data and trends to inform editorial and marketing teams as well as institutions, which increasingly base purchasing decisions on analytics.
Balaji Devarajan, a Director in the Divisions Digital Products Group and involved in the project from the start commented: Its been part of a much larger end-to-end effort to increase discoverability and improve customer engagement.
In one area, weve been enriching our content with meta-data, tagging, granular categorisation, so when it goes onto this or any other digital platform, its in the right format and shape and ready to be found.
At the same time, weve had teams focused on improving the author experience to attract submissions from new and existing researchers.
The new platform is being rolled out sequentially across the portfolio.
Cogent OA and a reimagined author submission portal were rolled out in 2016.
Building on positive customer feedback and an uptick in author submissions, the global Books business will migrate onto the platform in 2017.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE SPECIALIST INSIGHT AND INTELLIGENCE PATRICK MARTELL The Business Intelligence Division provides specialist data, CEO of Business Intelligence intelligence and insight to businesses, helping them make better decisions, gain competitive advantage and enhance return on investment.
It has a portfolio of more than 100 digital subscription products, providing critical intelligence to niche communities within five core industry verticals: Pharma, Finance, Maritime, TMT, and Agribusiness.
PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENTS IN 2016 The Business Intelligence Division returned to positive growth in 2016 after six years of declining performance, meeting its headline objective for the year and reflecting the benefits of a programme of operational fitness and simplification through the Growth Acceleration Plan.
Year-on-year progress in organic growth, from -1.9% in 2015to 1.1% in 2016, was driven by a steady recovery in subscription renewal rates, which now approach 90%, and progressive improvement in annualised contract values, as a result of the Divisions renewed focus on subscriptions, better customer engagement and enhanced account management.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE All five of the Divisions verticals delivered improvements although performance varied.
Pharma Intelligence had the strongest 290.0m momentum after a good response to early sales and product Revenue 2015: 276.8m initiatives, and a continued recovery in levels of investment in data and information within the industry.
The market for Finance Intelligence remained more challenging, with high levels of 65.7m industry regulation and structural pressure from technology innovation impacting spending patterns in banking.
Adjusted operating profit 2015: 63.2m In 2016, the team stepped up the pace of its GAP investment into product and platform initiatives, from expanded content sets to improved data collection, brand development, marketing 1.1% automation tools and enhanced delivery platforms, one Organic revenue growth 2015: -1.9% example of which is on page 43.
Several initiatives went live with customers towards the end ofthe year, and the continuation of this product and platform 4.8% development is key to maintaining growth momentum in 2017.
Reported revenue growth 2015: -1.7% The Division also continued to invest in talent through the year, enhancing the breadth and depth of the insight and intelligence powering our products.
This included a new team on the US 22% West Coast for TMT Intelligence business Ovum, expanding itscoverage and deepening links to major local TMT players.
Contribution to Informa Group revenue 2015: 23% 41 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE CONTINUED At a time when the volume of data and information available Over the past three online is expanding, the value of relevant and timely insights and conclusions is increasing.
The more action-oriented the insights years, the Division the better, with greater value coming from analysis and intelligence around what will happen and what businesses should do than from news reporting what has happened.
For more detail on has restructured and thismarket trend, see Big Data on page 13. refocused to become more It is a sophisticated and fast-moving market, with technology anenabler and a disrupter.
Intelligence providers have to invest customer and market continuously to keep pace with changing customer needs and demands, and to stay ahead of competitors.
oriented, and starts 2017 PRIORITIES AND PROSPECTS FOR 2017 Over the past three years, the Division has restructured and with positive momentum refocused to become more customer and market oriented.
Combined with a more commercial approach, this has already delivered steady improvement in subscription renewals, and the business starts 2017 with positive momentum.
The delivery of new products and upgraded platforms should help expand our audience and maintain subscription improvements.
Pharma Intelligence also added to its team of global analysts The addition of Penton assets complements this momentum, tostrengthen the Datamonitor Healthcare brand.
strengthening and expanding the Divisions vertical positions, enhancing our Marketing Solutions capabilities significantly, The addition of Penton, completed in November 2016, is the andpositioning the business well for further growth.
firstsignificant acquisition investment in Business Intelligence since the launch of GAP.
It adds more than 20 attractive digital Patrick Martell, Divisional Chief Executive has taken on the role of subscription data brands in verticals including Infrastructure CEO of Penton to oversee its integration.
He has relocated to the Equipment Watch, Transportation Aviation Week Intelligence US to better explore the opportunities from combining, and the Network and Design & Manufacturing SourceESB, as well response of Penton colleagues now joining Informa has been asaportfolio of over 100 print and digital B2B insight products very positive to date.
thatcomplement and extend our digital subscription portfolio.
To facilitate a smooth integration, the Divisions organisational Penton also adds significant and proven capability in business structure has been updated, expanding the Maritime vertical tobusiness content marketing and marketing solutions, opening toinclude Transportation including Aviation Week and adding new opportunities for growth.
asixth vertical, Industry and Infrastructure.
NOTABLE MARKET TRENDS This change puts greater operational focus, autonomy and The market for specialist professional, business-to-business, accountability into the Vertical teams, similar to the structure data and information that helps individuals and companies make adopted by Penton.
It will support the Divisions market oriented, more informed decisions, faster and more efficiently, is attractive customer-centric approach and its focus on delivering growth and growing.
Consultants Outsell Inc. value the market at $38bn aswe look to reap the full benefits of GAP and acquisition at its broadest, growing at a rate of 5.1% per annum, with the US investment.
The Division will also target opportunities to generate greater Business Intelligence operates within this space, focusing on value from specialist consultancy services under new leadership highly specialist intelligence, insight and data sets, with a narrow and a fresh approach.
This is a natural extension of subscription and deep approach.
It works within niche areas in sectors where activities, leveraging the same deep knowledge of specialist individual market opportunities are more targeted, but there are markets and improving customer relationships to upsell and typically fewer competitors.
42 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 3.
FLEXIBILITY AND RESILIENCE OF OUR SPECIALIST DATA 290.0M LIZ MCCARTHY Publisher of Lloyds List Intelligence LLI Business Intelligence DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY TYPE 1.
People are often surprised to hear we own a global network of physical data receivers, explains Liz McCarthy.
290.0M There are over 120,000 merchant vessels in the world, and as they move across oceans 3. and through ports, they transmit data that LLI records.
This data, combined with analysis and our exclusive relationship with the Lloyds Agency Network and hundreds of other industry data sources, creates the high quality DIVISIONAL REVENUE proprietary content at the heart of LLI.
UK 13% But in a competitive market and with big data 2.
North America 54% creating new commercial opportunities, the 3.
Continental Europe 16% business needed investment in technology and 4.
Rest of the World 17% platforms to meet evolving customer needs and to expand into new markets.
LLI received GAP funding to renovate its data capture and processing system and significantly upgrade its customer-facing platform.
Investment was made in additional and more sensitive ship tracking equipment to create a more granular data set.
This enables a greater range of vessel data to be captured more frequently, with visualisations on vessels as they move through ports and waterways.
The environment in which data is stored was upgraded to a more resilient, cloud-based platform, able to hold and process the hundreds of millions of information items LLI receives every day.
We worked extensively with customers to enhance the user interface, said Liz.
The result is a highly personalised portal with increased mapping functionality that provides a better user experience and allows customers to export data directly to their own models.
The new-look interface was launched in February 2017.
Adding more granular data to a more robust, user-friendly platform allows us to really demonstrate our value to current customers, but its opening up opportunities in new markets too.
Banks and trade finance organisations, commodities traders, government agencies and risk and compliance experts are increasingly interested in shipping intelligence, and a more flexible and tailored interface means we can meet their needs and create new products quicker and faster in the future, concludes Liz.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS INTERNATIONAL PLATFORMS FOR TRADE AND COMMERCE CHARLIE MCCURDY Global Exhibitions organises transaction-oriented exhibitions CEO of Global Exhibitions and trade shows, providing buyers and sellers across different industries and communities with a powerful platform to meet face to face, build relationships and conduct business.
Informa has a portfolio of around 200 exhibitions, serving a number of industry verticals, including Health & Nutrition, Beauty, Property & Construction and Pop Culture.
PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENTS IN 2016 The strategy to internationalise and scale the Global Exhibitions Division continued to deliver benefits in 2016, with another strong year of growth during the Divisions first full year under the leadership of Charlie McCurdy.
The portfolios top 20 events continued to perform well, with vertical growth in Life Sciences Arab Health, Construction & Real Estate World of Concrete Beauty & Aesthetics China Beauty, Anti-Aging World Congress, Health & Nutrition Vitafoods, SupplySide West andPop Culture FanExpo.
The acquisition of Penton in November added around 30 leading exhibitions brands to the portfolio, strengthening our FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE position in key verticals including Agriculture and Health & Nutrition.
It also adds further scale in the key US market and 306.9m confirms our position as the challenger operator we are now the third largest organiser of trade shows and exhibitions Revenue 2015: 262.5m globally, according to consultants AMR International.
Other targeted in-division investments were made to further 119.0m strengthen our position in key verticals, including the Waste &Wastewater Equipment, Treatment & Transport show in Adjusted operating profit 2015: 98.0m Indianapolis, widening our coverage of the sector.
The Divisions ambition continues to be to move from being anexhibitions organiser to a true market maker in our chosen 8.7% Verticals.
Through GAP, investments are being made in digital Organic growth 2015: 10.5% marketing and content capabilities to extend the experience sellers and buyers have at our exhibitions, and create a year-round showcase for products and innovation, attracting new business and further monetising customer relationships, 16.9% with oneexample illustrated see page 47.
Reported revenue growth 2015: 31.1% Exhibitions provide a platform for face to face customer discussions at scale, and the value of real time, face to face customer engagement rises as interactions increasingly 23% takeplace digitally.
Contribution to Informa Group revenue 2015: 22% 45 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS CONTINUED When a branded exhibition becomes significant enough in a given specialist sector, it can create a network effect.
If the right community is brought together, vendors attend because they 900 meet more current and new customers in one place than anywhere else, generating leads and securing sales, and buyers attend colleagues because of the critical mass of products and sellers they can access easily and efficiently.
The biggest shows in a particular vertical and region therefore tend to get bigger, and smaller shows without a unique offering can become less significant.
In recognition of this value, corporates are committing a growing c. 200 proportion of marketing budgets to the category.
According to Outsell, around 10% of corporate marketing budgets are now exhibitions spent on in-person events, and budgets for attending exhibitions are growing at 6.3% per annum.
This creates a rich backdrop for growth, reflected in AMR Internationals forecast of 4.6% compound annual growth to 2020.
The US exhibitions market continues to be the largest single market by far, estimated at $13bn in 2015 and over half of the global industry, with the second largest market being China at$2bn.
This has driven our focus on building presence and PRIORITIES AND PROSPECTS FOR 2017 capabilities inthe US.
It remains a highly fragmented market, In an attractive and growing exhibitions market, the international providing opportunities for growth and scale through targeted expansion of our portfolio and increased scale in the US is helping acquisitions.
the Division to grow consistently at or ahead of the markets pace.
A limitation on the growth of exhibitions is the availability of high With the integration of Penton during 2017, Global Exhibitions quality venues in key locations and at attractive times of year.
will gain 30 branded sector-specialist exhibitions, taking its total More modern venue capacity is coming on stream, most notably to around 200.
The vast majority of these take place in the US in China, but there is a long lead time.
Some venues lack adequate and nine appear in TSNNs prestigious Top 250 US Trade Shows capacity, leaving certain exhibitions space-constrained and list.
Penton also brings new talent to the division, and additional exhibitors unable to secure a slot.
There are sometimes ways to sophisticated capabilities in exhibition services.
mitigate this at individual shows.
In 2017, the MEDLAB component Penton increases our focused scale and international breadth in of our largest individual exhibition, Arab Health, was split into a core verticals, most notably in Health & Nutrition and Agriculture, separate event held directly afterwards, enabling more companies and complements our strength in areas like Construction & Real to exhibit at both events than would otherwise be possible.
Increased scale creates opportunities Exhibitions organisers generate the majority of their revenue for cross marketing and geo-cloning, and general contracting through the sale of floor space, along with sponsorship and and ancillary revenue, and should ensure another year of strong advertising income and at certain exhibitions, attendee revenue.
Increasingly, organisers are looking to monetise strong corporate We continue to invest, through GAP, to develop data and relationships in new ways, particularly online.
technology capabilities as part of our market maker strategy.
From year-round digital customer and content platforms tointernal systems that improve sales efficiency, show floor management and procurement, there remain numerous opportunities to improve efficiencies, unlock new growth opportunities and broaden and strengthen the Divisions revenuemix.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS TRANSFORMING CUSTOMER MARKETING TO BETTER ENGAGE KEY EXHIBITION AUDIENCES RICHARD BROOK Marketing Director, Global Exhibitions One of Global Exhibitions key GAP projects started from the simple commercial premise: what will increase attendance at our trade shows and help deliver more leads to convert into revenue?
For its marketing team, the answer was to upgrade how each show and brand targets and engages with customers.
Marketing Director Richard Brook explains, Whether youre an individual consumer or a business, you expect to be engaged in a way that is tailored and personalised to you one size fits all is no longer effective in any industry.
And while we had the people and ideas to introduce a more 4.
1. intelligent and focused marketing strategy, we 3. didnt previously have the tools to implement it.
Under GAP, Global Exhibitions has invested in 2. a new Division-wide marketing platform that enables highly targeted customer communications, 306.9M introduces advanced tracking through merging digital and offline behaviours to better understand the customer journey, holds customer data in a central, privacy-compliant way and reduces the level of manual work required of marketers.
DIVISIONAL REVENUE Richard continued, This is the first time weve BY TYPE consolidated marketing systems across the 1.
Well be moving to a single powerful 2.
Attendee 12% suite of best-in-class tools that will continuously 3.
Advertising 2% programme of workshops, testing and training with our 200 marketers all over the world, to 1.
2. make sure the new tools can deliver results for all Verticals.
Along with efficiencies, the platform also gives the Division new capabilities.
Michelle Swayze, a Dallas-based senior marketer for The 306.9M International Surface Event and Dwell on Design said: While our particular market has had great resources and tools, well be able to create even more targeted and advanced campaigns with these new systems.
4. really help measure and adapt our programmes.
Its exciting as a marketer and has the potential DIVISIONAL REVENUE to bring real commercial benefits.
UK 1% The platform is being rolled out business-by- 2.
North America 40% business, a process that started at the end 3.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT IN MARKET VERTICALS ANDREW MULLINS The Knowledge & Networking Division is the Groups CEO of Knowledge & Networking community content, connectivity and data business, incorporating its training, learning, conference, advisory andcongress businesses.
Trading as KNect365, it organises content-driven events and programmes that provide a platform for communities to meet, network and share knowledge.
Itruns conferences and training events each year globally, covering arange of subject areas, but with a particular focus on Life Sciences, TMTand Finance.
PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENTS IN 2016 The simplification and rationalisation of Knowledge & Networking continued through 2016.
Around 1,600 events were run during the year, down from around 3,000 three years ago and over 12,000 in 2007, as the Division increased its focus on larger branded annual events and continued its shift from small, one-off spot conferences.
The next stage of this transition is underway with a strategic review of our five remaining domestic conference businesses in 2017.
As the transition to a more focused portfolio continues, there FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE hasbeen some inevitable short-term impact on financial performance, although this varies across the portfolio.
In 2016, 224.4m our top 20 events in aggregate grew 8%.
These are established, branded events with strong positions in our three core verticals Revenue 2015: 225.5m ofLife Sciences, Global Finance and TMT.
The performance of smaller, domestically-focused conferences was more volatile, resulting in an overall organic revenue decline of -4.1%.
37.4m Knowledge & Networking tends to be more sensitive to the Adjusted operating profit 2015: 39.6m macro cycle than other Divisions, as the majority of income is generated through delegate fees or sponsorship that are more discretionary in nature than subscriptions.
In 2016, the business -4.1% saw some continued impact from the depressed oil price in the Middle East, the weak economy in Brazil and uncertainty in Organic revenue growth 2015: -4.2% Europe following the UKs decision to exit the EU.
Trading highlights during 2016 included the successful launch ofBiotech Week Boston, a new festival that brings together -0.5% scientists and innovators to partner and share data, research Reported revenue growth 2015: -8.4% and ideas.
We also expanded our successful Internet of Things World portfolio, with its second European edition experiencing audience growth of 255% and sponsorship and exhibition 17% growth of 190%.
In Life Sciences, BIO-Europe 2016 attracted a record number of delegates and on-site partnership meetings.
Contribution to Informa Group revenue 2015: 18% 49 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING CONTINUED And at AfricaCom and Fund Forum, new content streams and Digitisation and technology have created new opportunities innovative at-event technology were introduced.
toform online communities, create multi-media content and gather data-driven customer insights.
The Divisions transition To support the focus on branded events in core verticals, GAP may be uneven, but the end destination should be a more investments have strengthened the Divisions digital presence focused, predictable, rounded and digitally-minded business and expanded its specialist content.
This is enhancing our digital withmultiple sources of revenue.
marketing capability, helping to improve audience reach and deepening relationships with the sub-communities we are PRIORITIES AND PROSPECTS FOR 2017 targeting.
A new customer-facing brand also came into effect The long-term programme of simplification and operational early in the year KNect365, making connecting people improvement within Knowledge & Networking will continue in everywhere and all the time its clear purpose.
2017 through a strategic review of our five remaining domestic conference businesses in Australia, Singapore, Germany, MARKET TRENDS Switzerland and Brazil.
The global market for knowledge-based events and conferences The Divisions commitment to increase its focus on repeatable, is large with many different participants.
In the same way that branded events within our three core markets of Life Sciences, digitisation has increased the value of face-to-face customer Global Finance and TMT should create a streamlined portfolio interaction at exhibitions, so it has at other forms of events.
Personal interaction within specialist communities is at a premium.
that is more predictable and less volatile.
When combined with ongoing investment in digital platforms and specialist content, Conferences tend to be less transaction-oriented than exhibitions this shift will better position the Division as a leading knowledge and focused more on learning and networking.
While face to face provider to specialist communities in these verticals and help the networking remains scarce and valuable in the digital world, the Division meet its target of returning to growth by the end of the value attached to conference content has to an extent been GAP programme.
Twenty years ago, the main way to find out about a new industry development, learn about the implications of new In 2017, the Division will also focus on leveraging the 2016 legislation or hear experts speak, was at a conference.
Today, the acquisition of Light Reading, using its specialist content, industry internet provides rich content and real-time reporting, and social connections and monetisation strategies to strengthen the TMT media facilitates interaction with experts and personalities.
Similarly, focus will be on building on recent investments in ETF.
com and Finovate to further extend and strengthen the This structural shift means conferences have to offer more to Global Finance vertical.
As part of the Penton acquisition, delegates.
Brands have become more important, with attendees Knowledge & Networking takes on several franchises, most more selective about which events they attend, targeting those notably the automotive technology brand TU Automotive that that attract the right audience, facilitate introductions and willcombine with the TMT vertical.
networking, showcase the latest technology and have cutting edge speakers and content.
2017 will also see the launch of our partnership with London Tech Week, a major festival in June that brings together hundreds of These shifts are driving Knowledge & Networkings strategy different events and activities to showcase the UKs technology andits transition from a traditional spot conference model expertise and talent on the global stage.
50 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS CREATING DIGITAL CUSTOMER COMMUNITIES ISOBEL PECK Chief Audience Officer The market for face to face events is fast-changing, and Knowledge & Networking is making investments under GAP to support its shift from once-a-year spot conferences to year-round engagement with specialist communities.
Chief Audience Officer Isobel Peck explains, Our conferences had success in the past by taking an outbound marketing approach to attracting customers to a one-off event.
But in a more digital world, with increased competition for attention and budgets, and new ways to get information and network, the Division adopted a new approach 4.
Were focused on creating lasting and more valuable relationships with our customers, using content and leveraging social, search the recommendation channels to reach 3. audiences and capture new revenue streams.
224.4M The heart of the Divisions investment under GAP has been the launch of CORE, a digital platform that upgrades and standardises its online marketing and e-commerce estate and is optimised for SEO.
It has been built around the 2. customer: it is content rich, with events and forums organised around specialist industry sectors, and DIVISIONAL REVENUE has a consistent look and feel that better conveys BY TYPE key information while giving each brand flexibility 1.
Attendee 51% to convey its personality.
Exhibitor 18% The project was one of the earliest under GAP 4.
Isobel explained, We tested our concept and approach with customers 1. extensively, but took an agile approach when it came to go-live.
Our first event launched on CORE in April 2016 so that we could test, learn and improve in real time, and continuously improve the 2.
4. platform whilst events migrated over one by one.
224.4M To accompany the platform, Knowledge & Networking is investing in the creation and expansion of content-based communities that engage customers year-round.
To support this move, the marketing team has been reorganised 3. to create dedicated content marketing roles alongside campaign and data focused roles.
DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY Early results from investment in CORE are 1.
Customer conversion rates for events 2.
North America 28% on CORE have tripled, and people are spending 3.
Europe 32% more time on our sites, with increasing traffic from 4.
Rest of the World 21% content on social media and third-party platforms.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GLOBAL SUPPORT THE TEAM BEHIND THE TEAMS Global Support is Informas fifth Division, a central group In Global Business Services, the focus was on bringing greater ofexperts in specialist functions that forms the team behind consistency, simplicity and a global mind set to the delivery theteams.
Since the restructure of Informas operating model in 2014 A Global Business Services executive team was formed to andthe introduction of the Growth Acceleration Plan, Global enhance collaboration and innovation between the interrelated Supports role has been to provide efficient and effective Finance, Technology and HR service functions.
The executive advice, direction and support to all areas of the Group as it team assesses how processes can be simplified across teams grows and becomes more international.
This is achieved by and works to ensure services are continually improved and attracting andretaining a skilled and agile team of colleagues, delivered in a way that provides value to the internal customer and implementing technology, systems and processes that and end external customer, anticipating the support needs arerobustand scalable.
ofeach Division as it implements its business plans.
GLOBAL BUSINESS SERVICES Within the three Global Business Services teams, a number AND GROUP FUNCTIONS ofkey initiatives were delivered through 2016.
Global Support is comprised of Global Business Services The HR team completed a project initiated in 2015 to better andGroup.
Global Business Services incorporates finance, manage the collection and use of colleague data using simpler technology and HR.
It provides essential business services processes and a third-party technology platform.
tothe four Operating Divisions such as payroll and benefits, accounts payable and credit management, as well as This has started to provide deeper and more consistent technology services, enabling the businesses to focus insights of colleague data and information across the Group, onoperational targets and delivering growth.
enabling thecentral talent team to embark on a comprehensive talent mapping exercise to help ensure we Global Business Services executes activities that its teams have the right skills, capability and leadership experience in can deliver better, faster or cheaper through a scaled shared place as the Group expands and responds to market trends.
services model rather than an external third party or individual Operating Division could.
Most of its services are mandatory In Finance, we consolidated our shared service centres into for the Operating Divisions, with a small proportion available three regional hubs in 2015: Europe based in Colchester, UK: on an elective basis.
Americas based in Sarasota, US: and Asia based in Singapore.
Group functions incorporates corporate development, Group In 2016, work started to put in place more consistent global finance, tax and treasury, company secretary, legal, risk and processes across each shared service centre, improving compliance, investor relations, communications and brand, efficiencies and ensuring each has the capacity and capability andtalent, amongst others.
totake on additional work as the Group expands through acquisitions such as Penton.
These functions provide leadership and governance for the Group as a whole, taking planning and investment decisions, Within Technology, work continued in the cross-Division directing and implementing risk management procedures and leadership forum created in 2015 to bring about a more ensuring Informa meets its legal and regulatory obligations.
co-ordinated approach to our systems and security priorities.
GLOBAL BUSINESS SERVICES IN 2016 Ongoing initiatives include moving Informas computing In 2016, Global Support continued the work started in 2015 environment from physical data centres fully into the tostrengthen and improve its capabilities and infrastructure.
cloudtocreate a more resilient and scalable service, and continuedinvestment in information security detection, preventionmeasures and better use of end user computing technology to improve detection.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
