ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS The Company has a comprehensive Analyst meetings: in addition to RELATIONSHIPS WITH stakeholder engagement programme presentations to analysts that coincide SHAREHOLDERS which aims to help existing and potential with the announcement of the Groups The Company recognises the importance investors understand and communicate with full year and half year financial results, of communication with its shareholders.
The programme is designed to the Groups Chief Executive Officer, CFO Accordingly, the Board is happy to enter into ensure regular engagement with institutional and the Head of Investor Relations have a dialogue with institutional shareholders investors, shareholder groups and debt regularly met with analysts to enhance the based on a mutual understanding of investors.
Regular feedback is provided to financial communitys understanding of objectives, subject to its duties regarding the Board to ensure that they understand the the Group equal treatment of shareholders and views of stakeholders.
During the year, the Engagement with debt investors: the CFO the dissemination of inside information.
programme included: and Head of Treasury have held regular The Chief Executive Officer and the CFO Capital Markets Seminar: in February 2016, meetings with the Groups key relationship meet institutional shareholders on a regular a Capital Markets Seminar was held which banks, and have also actively engaged basis, and the Chairman periodically included presentations from the Executive with potential lenders.
Update meetings contacts the Companys major shareholders were also held with current and potential team, a number of the senior management and offers to meet with them.
The Board as team and various portfolio managers holders of public and private debt a whole is kept fully informed of the views from across our strategic asset classes.
instruments issued by the Group, and and concerns of the major shareholders.
The seminar provided shareholders and with both Standard & Poors and Fitch When requested to do so, the Senior rating agencies analysts with direct business perspectives Independent Director and other Non on the markets in which the Group Executive Directors are happy to attend Annual General Meeting: at the AGM held operates and the context of recent and meetings with major shareholders.
in July 2015, the Chairman, Chief Executive future growth opportunities Officer and other Directors were available Meetings with principal shareholders: to shareholders for discussion and to throughout the year, the Chairman, Chair answer any questions.
All shareholders are of the Remuneration Committee, Chief welcome to attend the AGM Executive Officer and Chief Financial Informal feedback: Executive Directors Officer have met with a number of and the Head of Investor Relations principal shareholders.
These meetings received feedback from analysts and were largely after the interim and full investors during the year both directly and year results announcements and in the through the Groups corporate advisers.
The Chairman also The Company Secretary also received hosted a dinner for a number of principal feedback on governance matters from, shareholders with the Senior Independent and met with, investors and shareholder Director and the Executive Directors in bodies.
This information was shared with attendance.
The full Board has been kept the Board to help members develop their informed of the issues raised at these understanding of shareholders views meetings and the views of shareholders and expectations on a regular basis.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and other Directors will continue to make themselves available to meet with shareholders as required.
Points raised at these meetings have been considered and, to the extent felt appropriate, adopted by the Group
