Sustainability Managing sustainability Sustainability is important for all responsible businesses but for a business that lends to underbanked consumers who typically have low, often fluctuating incomes and little or no previous credit history, it is even more critical.
Our sustainability strategy is focused on guiding our business so it can make the most of future lending opportunities by managing financial, social and environmental risks and opportunities.
We proactively maintain relationships with all stakeholders.
Our Code of Ethics clearly says how we work and applies to all employees and agents.
It highlights our commitment to uphold responsible business practices and meet or exceed legal requirements.
Sustainability objectives Our Sustainability strategy is framed around five material issues responsible lending, ethics, community, environmental and, going forward, people.
Our sustainability objectives, which are set in four-year periods, are aligned with our key material issues and aim to protect our reputation and deliver long-term sustainable growth.
The outcome of the latest reporting period for 2013-2016 is detailed below together with our 2017-2020 objectives.
Material Issues 2013 2016 objectives 2016 result Responsible Promote responsible lending Product development and marketing teams consider ethical Support financial literacy programmes to help lending and financial inclusion throughout principles customers and the general public make informed our core business activities All markets have access to local credit bureaux to support responsible financial decisions.
credit risk decisions Support for financial literacy programmes targeting our customer segment and the general public Ethics Embed Code of Ethics throughout Annual online training for employees and agents Continue to embed ethical decision making into our the organisation.
Ensure employees Ethics part of induction for new employees and agents business at a strategic and operational level.
and agents are aware of, and Annual Ethics Week held across all markets actively engage with the Code.
Ethics Working Groups established in all markets Community Renew community investment All markets involved in supporting local communities Support the communities in which we operate programmes to show that 489,000 invested in community programmes in 2016 through volunteer programmes, donations and other Provident nurtures talent and 2,740 employees volunteered in company time in 2016 initiatives.
delivers impacts, both for the 48% of community investment supported education projects business and the communities in which we operate.
Environmental Manage our environmental impact Carbon footprint reduced Scope 1 and 2 per customer by 12.7% in Continue to monitor and decrease the management and reduce our carbon footprint by 2016 compared with 2013 levels environmental impact of our operations.
7.5% per customer compared with Environmental Management System in place and all markets 2013 levels.
contribute to environmental KPIs People Promote employee and agent well-being and uphold human rights principles in all our business relationships.
22 Strategic Report Human rights We are committed to human rights and make an annual Case study: Responsible communication on progress through our membership of lending what about the the United Nations Global Compact Network UK.
We are committed to opposing slavery and human trafficking in dosh.
com our direct operations and in the indirect operations of our Across all of our Provident markets we focus on supply chain.
Our statement on the Modern Slavery Act promoting financial literacy to support responsible 2015 can be found on our website at www.
Better educated consumers make better borrowing decisions.
In Poland we reach young Diversity adults through an online blog known as What We are committed to diversity and take steps to ensure about the dosh.
Written by three bloggers, with that our business processes encourage recruitment, guest appearances by other financial experts, they selection and reward based purely on merit.
talk about managing their money through their everyday experiences.
This popular blog is seen as authentic and relevant to young people.
Readers are also invited to comment and share their Gender split at 31 December 2016 own experiences.
Board 5 2 Senior Management 112 35 All other employees 3,510 3,920 Male Female Excluding agents in Hungary and Romania.
2017 2020 objectives 85% Responsible Promote responsible lending Product development and marketing teams consider ethical Support financial literacy programmes to help Agents completed lending and financial inclusion throughout principles customers and the general public make informed ethics training in 2016 our core business activities All markets have access to local credit bureaux to support responsible financial decisions.
credit risk decisions Employees completed Support for financial literacy programmes targeting our customer ethics training in 2016 segment and the general public Ethics Embed Code of Ethics throughout Annual online training for employees and agents Continue to embed ethical decision making into our the organisation.
and agents are aware of, and Annual Ethics Week held across all markets 2,740 actively engage with the Code.
Ethics Working Groups established in all markets Employees volunteered in company time Community Renew community investment All markets involved in supporting local communities Support the communities in which we operate programmes to show that 489,000 invested in community programmes in 2016 through volunteer programmes, donations and other Provident nurtures talent and 2,740 employees volunteered in company time in 2016 initiatives.
contribute to environmental KPIs People Promote employee and agent well-being and For more information on our sustainability programme, material uphold human rights principles in all our business issues, business ethics and human rights visit the sustainability relationships.
section of our website at www.
co. uk International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 23
