DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR I am proud to report that following an external review IN THIS SECTION in December 2016, Intertek, for the first time, became a constituent of the FTSE4GOOD Index.
Inclusion within the 46 Our business index recognises the progress we have made in our internal How our Total Quality value proposition means we are and external sustainability activities, as well as in our Group making a positive contribution to society and the planet.
47 Our people During the year Intertek also formed a Joint Venture with ABC Our commitment to energising, inspiring and engaging Analitic in Mexico, creating the market leader in the provision of and the well-being of our people.
Environmental testing services in the country, focused on the prevention and control of water pollution, further expanding 50 Our environment our sustainability offering to our customers.
Our impacts on the environment and taking action to reduce them.
Across our business, our people provide Assurance, Testing, Inspection and Certification 'ATIC' services which assist our 51 Our communities customers in mitigating the environmental impacts of their Engaging and partnering with the local communities products, processes and operations, and in 2016, social and in which we operate.
environmental assessments of entire supply chains were also a key area of focus for our customers.
Our people are passionate about their work and are proud to be involved in activities which generate a positive impact for society and the environment.
We are focused on ensuring that our strategy and culture provides our people with the right platform to grow and develop their careers, but also allows them to be involved in activities which are socially responsible and enables them to engage with the communities in which they live and work.
This report describes Interteks sustainability performance for 2016 and highlights some of the work we are doing to help our customers, partner with our local communities and reduce our own ecological footprint.
Our people are passionate about their work and are proud to be involved in activities Andr Lacroix that generate a positive impact for society Chief Executive Officer and the environment.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 45 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR continued SAFE HYDROGEN REFUELLING STATIONS IN THE US OUR BUSINESS Intertek has worked with Powertech, Sandia National Laboratories and The National Renewable Energy Laboratory Our ATIC services cover almost every industry, from textiles, to launch a new method of safety and performance testing toys and electronics, to building, heating, pharmaceuticals, and certification of hydrogen fuelling stations in the US.
The petroleum products, food, and cargo inspection.
Our clients Hydrogen Station equipment performance 'HyStEP' device trust us to ensure the quality and safety of their products, which is in a mobile unit attached to the back of a vehicle was assets and processes, to protect their brands and gain so innovative that no standards adequately addressed the safety competitive advantage.
This new method of testing is more We work globally with our clients to improve the social, ethical, efficient than previous methods where individual automotive safety and environmental impacts of their services, supply chains manufacturers conducted their own testing to certify the and products that are used by their customers every day.
safety and performance of hydrogen fuelling stations.
Through the provision of our ATIC service, our vision is to become To bring the new testing and certifying method to the market, the world's most trusted partner for quality assurance.
This gives Intertek facilitated a process known as a Failure Mode, Effects, rise to improving our customers performance and helping them and Criticality Analysis 'FMECA' on each HyStEP device.
The to operate sustainably, overcoming market constraints, improving purpose of the FMECA is to analyse and assess potential failures processes, reducing risk and supporting their ability to operate within a process or device for safety hazards and performance, effectively and act responsibly.
Here are some examples of the and the causes and effects of those failures and levels of work that we have done for our customers: performance.
After which, it identifies what actions could UNDERSTANDING MICROPLASTICS IN THE RIVER RHINE be taken to eliminate or reduce the chance of each failure Intertek has completed a study supporting researchers from the occurring and performance being improved.
University of Basel to evaluate plastic debris in the River Rhine.
Initially, the HyStEP device has been used for certifying fuelling The study, which was recently published in the journal, Scientific stations in California, which currently has the most hydrogen Reports, represents the first scientific study of microplastics over fuelling stations of any state in the US.
Construction is expected the length of a major river.
Tiny plastic particles, smaller than five to begin on additional stations in 2017.
Intertek is uniquely placed millimetres, known as microplastics, are found in almost all rivers, to harness the opportunities for safety and performance testing lakes and oceans.
They can result from fragmentation of plastic and certification in the alternative fuels industry in the waste, textile fibres or occur as intermediate products in plastic US market.
production or as small pellets used in personal care products.
WATER QUALITY COMPLIANCE AROUND THE WELSH The University of Basel researchers collected many samples COAST from the Rhine and partnered with Interteks Basel laboratory Intertek has led the modelling and compliance for Welsh Waters to understand the type and concentration of microplastics largest ever scientific coastal investigation, an 8m project found.
Interteks polymer testing experts developed a process across 49 coastal sites around Wales and has also provided which would enable the handling and grouping of the thousands numerous innovative techniques and a state-of-the-art of particles which make up the samples in a manageable way and assessment methodology.
then investigated the many plastic particles using a technique called infra-red spectroscopy.
Intertek Energy & Water is working with the Dwr Cymru Welsh Water 'DCWW' Capital Delivery Alliance supporting an extensive This information has given a first insight into the origin and field data collection programme designed to ensure that data are former use of the plastics debris which, in turn, could help suitable for model calibration and compliance investigation.
This to reduce the levels of microplastics and prevent harm to the data will be combined with outputs from sewerage network aquatic biodiversity of the River Rhine.
The results revealed models to feed into Interteks state-of-the-art compliance that these microplastics have originated from a wide range of assessment systems.
applications such as packaging, personal care products, office equipment, vehicle construction and numerous others.
We plan We have been working continuously with DCWW for 15 years and to continue our collaboration with the University of Basel and have built an extensive knowledge of the physical processes of to support further characterisation of microplastics and coastal waters, estuaries, river catchments and reservoirs.
work is a valuable step in extending our understanding of water quality issues and building on previous solutions in order to meet the latest regulatory targets.
46 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT OUR PEOPLE Delivering sustainable returns is a key enabler of our 5x5 strategy for growth and incorporates Responsible Investment 'RI'.
Our 42,452 people at Intertek work globally for our customers At Intertek, RI includes the evaluation of Environmental, Social on a daily basis, driving the performance of our business to be the & Corporate Governance 'ESG' risks as part of the investment worlds most trusted partner for quality assurance.
ESG due diligence forms a key part of our acquisition 5x5 strategy energises our people to take Intertek to new heights, review process as well as when assessing capital expenditure deliver our customer promise and to live our own values.
We want to decisions on new and innovative ATIC services.
We ensure foster a company culture where our people are recognised for being that we have identified potential ESG risks, and have in place inspired to find innovative ways to continually develop our business corresponding mitigation plans and remedies.
Our investment and are engaged in what we do for our customers.
How we give our process, in line with our overall Group strategy, ensures that people opportunities, how we integrate our people into our mission we maintain the right balance between performance and values, and how we engage and inspire our people to deliver our and sustainability.
mission across our global business in a way that our stakeholders expect, are at the heart of our business.
A further example of our focus on RI for our stakeholders is the Joint Venture formed with ABC Analitic in Mexico, which expands ENERGISING, INSPIRING, AND ENGAGING our sustainability offering to our customers, for more details see TALENTED PEOPLE page 29.
In 2016, we have launched our 10x recognition awards programme to celebrate the success of our people who have been STEWARDSHIP AND GOVERNANCE energised and inspired to live our values and deliver our customer At Intertek, the Board of Directors oversees and has the promise.
The programme recognises the individual contributions responsibility for setting the Groups strategy and performance that our people have made to power our 5x5 strategy throughout and risk management see pages 56 to 64.
The Board our global business.
The Executive Management Team collectively acknowledges the importance of diversity in the boardroom as select and award individuals to celebrate their contributions made a key component of good governance.
As at 31December 2016, for exceptional performance.
the Boards composition was 33% female and 67% male and for the senior leadership group 502 people at the end of 2016, 25% At Intertek, we are proud to be an Equal Opportunities Employer female and 75% male.
To read more about our Board diversity see and all qualified applicants are considered for employment page 57. regardless of gender, ethnicity, religion, age, and other protected characteristics.
We believe that this is an important element of Sustainability and CSR are integrated into Intertek through attracting talented people to engage them from the beginning.
policy distribution and through our Code of Ethics framework.
Our We reach out to prospective employees in a variety of ways, operations and support functions are responsible for identifying depending on location and role, in compliance with local and evaluating risks applicable to their areas of the business and regulations for fair recruitment practices and equal opportunities.
the design and operation of suitable internal controls see We post vacancies via our website www.
com careers Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 34 to 39.
The Board and employ different ways of sourcing talented people, such as has overall accountability for Interteks sustainability and CSR, recruitment agencies, social media, printed advertisements, and the Group-wide strategy and implementation are the employee referrals, professional bodies and associations, schools, responsibility of the Senior Vice-President, Global Customer colleges and universities.
In order to offer people career growth Service and ATIC Operational Excellence.
and progression within the Group, where possible, we fill vacancies from within the Company first.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 47 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR continued INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY Total number of Intertek employees over the last five years in To live our values and be a global family that is inclusive and relation to revenue shows continuing growth in employment values diversity, we apply all employment policies and practices, and careers.
including recruitment, promotion, reward, working conditions, INVESTING IN THE GROWTH OF OUR PEOPLE and performance management related policies, in a way that is To seize the exciting growth opportunities of our Total Quality informed, fair and objective.
Our inclusion and diversity policy value proposition we invest in the growth of our people.
We want acts to eliminate discrimination so that our employees are to provide the potential leaders of Intertek with skills to grow our treated fairly, feel respected and included in our workplaces.
business, to hire, inspire, engage and retain the best people to We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of power our 5x5 strategy.
We want our people to grow by learning fairness, respect and safety and adhere to the principles of the new skills to help them advance their careers and deliver our UN Convention on Human Rights and the International Labour customer promise.
Our talent mapping process is critical to the Organizations core conventions.
future success of our organisation to deliver our strategy and foster our passionate culture and our values throughout Intertek.
MALE:FEMALE BY REGION PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 8,128 3,646 11,351 8,735 7,240 3,352 Intertek has the vision of becoming the worlds most trusted Male partner for quality assurance.
To achieve this, we work tirelessly Female to ensure the work that we do in many markets across the world is protected against risks by ensuring compliance with local, national and international laws.
Maintaining the trust and confidence of our customers by assuring the validity and accuracy of reports and certificates that we deliver through our ATIC services is a top priority for us.
Intertek is committed to improving its culture of upholding the highest standards of integrity and professional ethics.
All issues 11,774 20,086 10,592 relevant to our Code of Ethics can be raised and discussed openly Americas Asia EMEA inc. Central and we operate a strict integrity policy of zero-tolerance regarding breaches of our compliance policy.
To support this policy in action, At 31December 2016 Intertek employed 42,452 people, all people working for or on behalf of Intertek are required to an increase of 2.5% over the previous year.
sign our Code of Ethics upon joining the Company or before commencing work on our behalf, confirming acceptance of the INTERTEK TOTAL WORKFORCE BY GENDER high standards expected of them in all business dealings.
The Male Code sets clear expectations that people working for our Female 37% 63% business must act with integrity and in an open, honest, ethical and socially responsible manner.
Intertek employees or people acting on Intertek's behalf are responsible for applying the Code in their own job role, their part of the business and location.
To support their continual understanding, they are required to complete our comprehensive online Code of Ethics training course annually.
To empower the people who work for Intertek to act, we have a well-publicised hotline for all employees, contractors and others representing Intertek, enabling them to confidentially Interteks gender diversity reflects the industries and report suspected misconduct or breaches of the Code.
Our whistlequalification profiles typical of individuals working in the blowing hotline is run by an independent, external provider, it is countries and business lines in which we operate.
multi-language and accessible to all employees 24 hours a day either by phone or by email.
Those concerned are encouraged REVENUE AND HEADCOUNT to report any non-compliance, integrity or ethical concerns 2,054 2,184 2,093 2,166 2,567 Revenue 34,882 36,864 38,407 41,434 42,452 using the hotline.
Posters are present in all our sites.
Headcount 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 48 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION If a report is made to the hotline, it is followed up by Intertek's Our employees have signed the Speak up for Safety pledge to Compliance officers.
All reports are investigated and, where demonstrate their commitment to lead by example and look out required, are escalated immediately, provided there is no conflict for the safety of co-workers, customers, and the community.
It of interest, to the Ethics & Compliance Committee which is chaired also represents the commitment to working safely and bringing by our Group CEO and also includes our Group Legal Counsel, SVP a positive attitude to ensuring that best safety practices are Global Customer Service & ATIC Operational Excellence and EVP followed and concerns are voiced.
Our people are able to report Human Resources.
This ensures effective resolution both of all incidents quickly in a standardised way on our Group intranet.
individual issues and any systemic or process improvements which can be made to address them.
During 2016, 163 reports of non-compliance with our Code of Ethics were made to our hotline.
Of those reports, 47 were substantiated and required remedial action.
Of those substantiated claims: there were no substantiated grievances relating to human rights, labour practices or societal impact breaches: there were two environmental incidents: there were no reported violations of the rights of indigenous people: and there were no cases of discrimination.
MODERN SLAVERY From left to right: Ryan Parks, Ramzi Amawi and Nimer Al-Hafi sign the Speak up As a global provider of quality solutions, including supply chain for Safety pledge at the Plano, Texas town hall.
assurance and modern slavery audits, for its clients, Intertek is committed to preventing slavery and human trafficking in its own corporate activities and to ensuring that its own supply chain is During 2016 we achieved a 21% reduction in lost time injuries and free from modern slavery.
an 8% reduction in medical treatment injuries.
The Group analyses its supply chain on an ongoing basis as part 2016 2015 2014 of its risk, compliance and ethics framework.
We have corporate Occupational fatalities 0 0 1 policies and governance processes to support our efforts to Lost time injuries rate 0.25 0.18 0.25 address the issues covered by the Modern Slavery Act 2015, Medical treatment including: the Code of Ethics with regular refresher training for injuries rate 0.35 0.56 0.34 all employees : a confidential and external hotline on which Rates refer to the number of lost time injuries and medical treatment injuries issues can be reported: a labour and human rights policy: occurring per 200,000 hours worked.
and clear recruitment policies aimed at fair recruitment and treatment of employees.
We go to great lengths to train all of our employees on health and safety matters, including emergency response procedures and Furthermore, to demonstrate our commitment to continued intervention and reporting of accidents, incidents and near misses, improvements and achieving an industry-leading standard in this during on-boarding.
Where relevant, all employees and contractors area, we will work to put in place enhanced policies, procedures are provided with personal protection equipment when performing and due diligence processes for suppliers which are aimed more work for the Company.
specifically at evaluating the risk of, and preventing, modern slavery issues.
To ensure that each Intertek location is able to operate safely, there is a dedicated fire warden, first-aider and health and safety HEALTH & SAFETY representative at each Intertek location.
These representatives Managing the health, safety and welfare of our people, clients and are empowered to not only investigate incidents and implement third parties connected with the business, is a top priority for us preventive and corrective actions, but also to disseminate safety at Intertek.
Intertek is committed to the continuous review and information through training and continual improvement improvement of its health and safety performance and works programmes to target specific areas of concern that towards achieving zero incidents.
As a key element of our commitment to health and safety this year we have launched our Speak up for Safety campaign across the whole of Intertek.
One of our key goals is to ensure that our colleagues are fully engaged in creating a safe working environment.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 49 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR continued ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS OUR ENVIRONMENT Our environmental management systems are geared towards minimising our impacts on the environment.
We carefully plan At Intertek, we aim to minimise the impact of our operations what we are going to do, checking throughout the year how on the environment by understanding and mitigating against we are impacting the environment to ensure that we are acting our material impacts.
In doing so, we can target where we take responsibly.
Here are some examples of the good work that we action and we do this through reducing energy consumption in have done in 2016: our buildings and facilities, utilising renewable sources of energy, implementing green waste management practices, efficient At our site in Mexico City we have implemented a water recycling water management, minimising business travel, carbon offsetting system.
This supports the water needs of our textile laboratory and operating quality management systems.
To support which washes clothing as a part of the testing process.
The this effort, our environmental and climate change policy is system reduces our consumption of fresh water, thereby implemented through country management to ensure reducing our demand on local water supplies.
compliance with local guidelines and regulations.
This year, across 76 sites in the United States, we have launched For 2016, Interteks electricity consumption was reported to be a programme to improve our management of non-hazardous 227,534 MWh 5.55 MWh per employee and gas consumption waste.
The programme focuses on connecting our sites to local was reported to be 70,556 MWh 1.72 MWh per employee.
Our opportunities for minimising how much waste we send to Greenhouse Gas 'GHG' emissions accounting system has been landfill and to increase recycling.
We have implemented new implemented using the guidelines of the GHG protocol and performance metrics so that each site can utilise the waste DEFRA.
In this report, we are reporting for the annual period programme offerings at the local level.
The corresponding At Intertek, to minimise the risk of harmful and hazardous average number of employees for this time period was 40,983. substances impacting the environment and harming people and CO e1 emissions from activities for which Intertek is responsible 2 ecosystems, we operate strict controls to manage the handling, include: storage and disposal of harmful and hazardous substances.
Intertek employees are fully trained in the safe handling of such GHG substances and are provided with appropriate equipment and Emissions tonnes of clothing to protect themselves and reduce the risk to the 1 CO e 2 environment.
A key element of continuous improvement is the Scope 1 the combustion of fuel 58,283 reporting of incidents which all employees are trained to do.
operation of facilities 13,813 purchase of electricity, Scope 2 heat or steam 126,069 Outside of scope 679 Total emissions 198,844 CO e per 2 Intensity ratios employee 2016 4.85 2015 4.86 2014 5.29 1.
To ensure full completeness of the businesss GHG emissions globally across our whole business, actual data was compiled for all the major operating countries.
Where necessary, to cover some sites that were not able to provide actual data, some figures were extrapolated.
Extrapolation was based on equivalent activity data figures, i. e. electricity and gas consumption, of one employee and then multiplied by the actual number of people at sites.
This was not the case for minor contributions such as fugitive emissions.
Where sites provided data covering only part of the year these figures were extrapolated linearly to cover the full year.
50 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION AMERICAS OUR COMMUNITIES Intertek employees in Grand Rapids donated supplies to a local school to help disadvantaged children.
The donations came in the We are committed to the cultural values and the relationships form of rucksacks filled with items such as notebooks, markers, that we share with the communities in which we operate.
pens and folders to ensure that they started the school year with Fostering good relationships supports our standing in the everything they needed to help them learn.
Here, we have selected some examples from across Intertek of how we have engaged In the wake of hurricane Matthew, Intertek employees in with our local communities during 2016: Arlington Heights, USA, packed 1,700 meals to send to Haiti.
Working with charitable organisations, this was an initiative that EMEA contributed to tackling the risk of hunger in the aftermath of a Intertek has shown its continued commitment to promoting natural disaster.
Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics careers for the fifth year running.
This year, we have sponsored and judged In Mexico and Central America, executives assembled and tested on the panel of the Aberdeen Schools' Science Fair in the UK.
wheelchairs for children with disabilities.
The finished wheelchairs were presented to the children as a part of the regional annual In France, Intertek employees took part in La Parisienne charity management conference.
race to join the race against breast cancer.
The race course saw participants run 6.7km through the streets of Paris.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 6 March 2017.
Intertek volunteered to support the Humedica project 'Geschenk mit Herz' to certify Christmas parcels going to disadvantaged By order of the Board children in Germany.
Every donated parcel had its contents checked to remove unsuitable gifts, such as breakable items or toy weapons and to ensure that each child received gifts appropriate for their age and gender.
APAC As a part of the 'Swachh Bharat Abhiyan Initiative, a governmentled initiative, Intertek Indias Hygiene and Sanitation Improvement Project' launched in 2015 was completed in 2016.
This year, Andr Lacroix Intertek has funded and been part of the construction of drainage, Chief Executive Officer sewage and road systems around the Intertek India Delhi office.
Intertek has also worked with local volunteers to clean streets Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 guidelines provide a as a part of the project.
recommended framework and indicators for reporting.
A table outlining the GRI standard disclosures is provided on our corporate In Bangladesh, Intertek employees travelled to areas most website at www.
affected by the seasonal flooding to support the relief effort.
All data used for performance indicators is representative of We distributed food, drinking water, money and other essential the GRI Guidelines.
items to support around 255 families affected by the floods.
Intertek volunteers in Indonesia went to Bagan Lalang Beach near Kuala Lumpur to pick up litter.
This activity supports local biodiversity and makes the beach a better place to visit for the local community.
In Hong Kong, Intertek volunteers visited elderly people who live alone during the Mid-Autumn Festival.
We delivered festive food and supplies to help elderly people in poverty during a time when people come together in the community.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 51
