RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Corporate responsibility SUSTAINABILITY business practices Guided by our purpose to create sustained long-term wealth, we seek to be a positive OUR SUSTAINABILITY influence in all our core businesses and in each of the societies in which we operate.
PHILOSOPHY We do this by empowering communities through entrepreneurship and education, and leveraging the value in our diversity.
We recognise the challenges that climate change presents to the global economy and we will consider supporting any meaningful activity that eitherreduces the negative impact on or prolongs the life of our planet.
Investec as a responsible corporate allows us to concentrate, for now, on key At Investec we recognise that while our Our culture and values demonstrate our shareholders remain at the forefront, belief that as an organisation we can focus areas.
Deliberately not driven on a top-down basis, the executive maintains our purpose ultimately is not only about and must have a positive impact on the driving profits.
We strive to be a distinctive responsibility for oversight, direction, success and well-being of communities coordination and integration of our specialist bank and asset manager, local to our offices, the environment, and demonstrating cast-iron integrity, moral sustainability efforts while the individual on overall macro-economic stability.
business units provide the key drivers strength and behaviour which promotes Our philosophy seeks to align the interests trust.
Our core values include unselfishly behind our activities, in a manner that best of shareholders and stakeholders over makes sense to each.
contributing to society, valuing diversity time, and provides the individual business and respecting others.
Outstanding and Please refer to the website units and regions with a basis from which empowered talent, entrepreneurial spirit and for Investecs full corporate to determine their own approach.
The regard for the planet are other qualities that citizenship statement.
groups philosophy is not intended to align with the culture of our organisation and our approach to responsible business.
be mutually exclusive or exhaustive, but Sustainability at Investec Investecs sustainability focus encompasses endurance and the interdependence of the three key areas of profit, people and planet: Sustainability at Investec is about: PROFIT PEOPLE PLANET Building a sustainable business FINANCIAL STRENGTH SUPPORTING OUR DIRECT IMPACT model to position the group for AND RESILIENCE EMPLOYEES Reduce the the long term so that Investec can Balanced and resilient Strong, diverse and operational impacts of make a valuable contribution to business model.
capable workforce our physical business.
society and to macro-economic Provide a progressive stability RISK MANAGEMENT INDIRECT IMPACT work environment AND COMPLIANCE Attracting and developing a Respect and uphold Embed environmental strong, diverse and capable Strong risk human rights.
considerations into workforce consciousness business activities SUPPORTING OUR Responsible banking Responsible financing Unselfishly contributing to society COMMUNITIES practices and investing and to the well-being of our Responsible lending Education communities, largely through Funding renewable andinvesting.
energy projects and education and entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship green developments.
Understanding and managing our GOVERNANCE environmental footprint so we can Strong culture and make a positive impact through values to underpin our our operations and business processes, functions activities and structures.
Growing and preserving clients and stakeholders wealth based on relationships of trust.
Our approach to sustainability is documented throughout this integrated annual report with further detail in a more  report on our website.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 143 Four Annual financial statements Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016
