Our business ethics and social responsibility Our portfolio companies, which are primarily focused Our business ethics and social on the healthcare, technology, clean technology responsibility and biotechnology sectors, are developing solutions Our goal is to build a sustainable and viable business.
to some of the worlds most significant social, The Group therefore seeks to conduct all of its environmental and health challenges.
Consequently, operating and business activities in an honest, ethical the Group recognises the importance of ensuring and socially responsible manner and these values that the businesses it establishes and nurtures underpin our business model and strategy.
We are comply with all applicable environmental, ethical committed to acting professionally, fairly and with and social legislation.
Our involvement in these integrity in all our business dealings and relationships companies allows greater scope to engage with their with consideration for the needs of all of our management teams and offer guidance.
stakeholders including university partners, investors, Our support of early-stage businesses also suppliers, employees, and the businesses in which the demonstrates our alignment with government Group has holdings.
initiatives in science and innovation and contributes The Group is committed to ensuring a safe to employment growth in the communities in which environment for employees as well as minimising our portfolio companies operate.
We estimate that the overall impact on the environment.
IP Group in excess of 2,000 jobs have been created as a result endeavours to conduct its business in accordance of new businesses created and or supported by the with established best practice, to be a responsible Group.
employer and to adopt values and standards designed to help guide staff in their conduct and Community engagement business relationships.
The Group seeks to have a positive impact on the communities in which it operates and one of the ways The Group works with a variety of suppliers and seeks in which it achieves this is through charitable support to ensure that there is diversity in the supply chain, at both a Group level and by staff.
To date, the Group working with SMEs as well as larger organisations.
has aimed to donate up to 1% of the previous years Where possible, we work with local suppliers realised profits to one or more charities which have therefore impacting positively on the communities a particular relevance to IP Groups activities or to where we operate.
The Group is a signatory to the members of our team.
The Groups chosen charities Prompt Payment Code.
in 2016 were St Gemmas hospice, the largest hospice The Group complies with all laws, regulations and in Yorkshire, and the Royal Voluntary Service, which rules applicable to its business, such as the Market runs a network of volunteers to support older people Abuse Regulation and the Bribery Act 2010.
We with initiatives such as the befriending service.
A list take a zero tolerance approach to bribery and of charities the Group has supported to date can be corruption and have effective systems in place.
All found on the Groups website: www.
employees who are involved with the regulated In 2016, the Group donated a total of 17k to business of managing investment transactions charitable causes, with 16k going to the charities receive compliance and anti-money laundering named above and 1k being donated to other training, with periodic refresher courses.
As a publicly charities for employee match funding or discretionary traded entity, IP Group actively seeks to engage and donations.
Employee initiatives included a lunchtime maintain an open dialogue with both institutional and feast, several bake off events and a race the sun private shareholders through its investor relations cycle raising a total of 2k in addition to Group programme.
The indirect impact of our model Following several years of ad-hoc charity initiatives, IP Groups day-to-day activities have limited adverse the Group made a commitment to investigate the social and environmental impact.
There can, however, viability of a 3-year strategic partnership with one be a more significant impact indirectly through the charity which will allow the Group to make a more nature and operations of the companies that we significant contribution to the work provided by the support.
The Groups charity committee is currently liaising with several charities on this initiative with a decision expected in late April 2017.
46 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Strategic Report Our Business ethics Exceptional people doing exceptional things should Employee diversity and be well-rewarded for achieving exceptional results.
employment policies While heavily weighted to successful performance IP Group is an equal opportunities employer.
Diversity over the medium to long-term, we consider that is key to how we work and we believe that great the Group offers an attractive overall remuneration ideas can come from anyone.
As such, we believe package to all our employees with both short in equal opportunity for all people when it comes and longer-term components.
We benchmark to recruitment, selection and career development.
remuneration and benefits regularly against the For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group industry.
Our remuneration and benefits package employed an average of 70 employees and had five focuses on supporting health through private non-executive directors.
A breakdown of our people medical and Ride-to-Work and family insurance by gender can be seen in the table below.
IP Group and through inclusion of families in some of our supports the rights of all people as set out in the UN other benefit options and Childcare Vouchers Universal Declaration of Human Rights and, insofar while also offering opportunities for longer term as it is able to, ensures that all transactions the Group financial security through investment and savings enters into uphold these principles.
opportunities i Total Staff: 76 Male Female Health and safety ii Board 70% 30% All our people are responsible for the promotion of, i Senior Management 69% 31% and adherence to, health and safety measures in the i workplace.
The Chief Operating Officer has overall All Employees 47% 53% responsibility for the implementation of the Groups i.
Excludes non-executive directors health and safety policies and procedures.
Includes Company Secretary The primary purpose of the Groups health and safety policy is to enable all of the Groups people Talent management to go about their everyday business at work We believe in recruiting exceptional people to do in the expectation that they can do so safely and exceptional things and we know how important our without risk to their health.
During the years ended unique culture is to attracting and retaining talent.
31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, no Our values passionate, principled, pioneering reportable accidents occurred under UK Health and truly describe how it feels to work within IP Group.
People are given an unusual degree of freedom and authority to accomplish the extraordinary things we Copies of the Groups policies in relation to equal do and we are highly supportive of flexible working.
opportunities and diversity, health and safety and We consider our flexibility to be important in our anti-corruption and bribery can be found on the approach to turning ground-breaking science into Groups website: www.
Environmental policy Because we operate in a specialised segment of While we believe the direct environmental impact our industry, we recruit talent with a combination of IP Group plc and its subsidiary companies is of rare skills such as scientists with commercial and relatively small, the Group is committed to ensuring entrepreneurial backgrounds, who can operate with the environmental impacts of our business operations equal confidence in both academia and fast-paced remain as low as possible.
We recognise our start-ups while speaking the language of the City.
responsibility to ensure that the business operates Development comes from the experience our people in an environmentally responsible and sustainable gain from working with a significant number of startmanner.
Employees are encouraged to reduce their up enterprises and seeing first-hand how they are impact on the environment by hosting meetings operated.
Sharing knowledge and discussing these via video conference where possible, thereby only experiences as well as structured training is key to engaging in business travel when necessary, using leveraging this learning across the Group.
To this end, public transport and by minimising the usage of we encourage employees to build strong relationships paper by using the recycling facilities provided in our with all their colleagues by keeping everyone offices.
While the Board as a whole has primary updated regularly and often in person on the Groups objectives and progress.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Our business ethics and social responsibility CONTINUED responsibility for environmental issues, it has Organisation boundary and scope of allocated day-to-day responsibility for the review of emissions environmental and social issues to the Chief Financial We have reported on all of the emission sources Officer, Greg Smith.
required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic In addition, major investment themes for IP Group Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These have included, and will continue to include, areas sources fall within our consolidated financial statement.
which have the potential to develop technologies An operational control approach has been used in which could result in significant environmental order to define our organisational boundary.
is the basis for determining the Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions for which the Group is responsible.
Organisation boundary and scope of emissions For avoidance of doubt, this excludes any emissions from our investment subsidiary companies.
The following section includes our mandatory Management believe the approach taken best reporting of greenhouse gas emissions.
The reporting captures the emissions for which the Group is directly period is the same as the Groups financial year.
We responsible and has control over.
have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Methodology Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources The Group has employed the services of a specialist fall within our consolidated financial statement.
An adviser, Verco, to quantify the GHG emissions operational control approach has been used in order associated with the Groups operations.
to define our organisational boundary.
This is the basis for determining the Scope 1 and 2 emissions for The following methodology was applied by Verco in which the Group is responsible.
the preparation and presentation of this data: For avoidance of doubt, this excludes any emissions the Greenhouse Gas Protocol published by from our investment subsidiary companies.
the World Business Council for Sustainable Management believe the approach taken best Development and the World Resources Institute captures the emissions for which the Group is directly the WBCSD WRI GHG Protocol : responsible and has control over.
application of Defra emission factors to the FTSE Russell the trading name of FTSE International Groups activities to calculate GHG emissions: Limited and Frank Russell Company confirms that implementation of the new scope 2 reporting IP Group Plc has been independently assessed methods application of location-based and marketaccording to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has based emission factors for electricity supplies: satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of inclusion of all the applicable Kyoto gases, the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global expressed in carbon dioxide equivalents, or CO2e: index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good Index presentation of gross emissions as the Group does Series is designed to measure the performance of not purchase carbon credits or equivalents.
companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and Governance ESG practices.
The Absolute emissions FTSE4Good indices are used by a wide variety of The total greenhouse emissions from IP Group plcs market participants to create and assess responsible operations in the financial year 2016 year ending investment funds and other products.
31 December 2016 were: GHG Reporting Location-based: The section below includes our mandatory reporting 3,180.6 tonnes of CO equivalent tCO e 2 2 of greenhouse gas emissions.
The reporting period is Market-based: the same as the Groups financial year.
3,130.3 tonnes of CO equivalent tCO e 2 2 The growth in emissions is due to a substantial increase in business travel activity, which are classed as scope 3.
It should be noted that, over the same period, there has been a decrease in Scope 1 refrigerant gas losses and Scope 2 electricity emissions.
48 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Strategic Report Our Business ethics on using the location-based method for Scope 2 Intensity ratio emissions which uses the same emissions factor As well as reporting the absolute emissions, the source as in 2015.
The main source of this decrease Groups GHG emissions are reported below on the is from Scope 2 emissions.
This is due to two factors: metric of tonnes per square metre of occupied office a reduction in the electricity consumption and a space.
This is considered the most appropriate metric reduction in the carbon intensity of the electricity given that the majority of emissions result from the grid in the United Kingdom.
operation of the Groups offices and the day-to-day The 2016 intensity metric using the market-based activities of the employees.
2 method is 0.04 tCO e per m. This method was not 2 Target and baselines applicable for 2015.
Given the comparatively low GHG impact of the Groups operations, the Groups objective is to maintain or reduce its GHG per square metre of office space each year and will report each year whether it has been successful in this regard.
Scope 1 being emissions from the Groups combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
Scope 2 being electricity from location-based calculations, heat, steam and cooling purchased for the Groups own use.
Scope 3 being all indirect emissions not in scope 2 that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and 2 downstream emissions 2016 59 employees & 860.23 m office space 4.
Emissions calculated using a market-based approach were: Scope 2: 24.6 Tonnes CO2e, Total GHG emissions: 3,130.3 Tonnes CO2e 2016 2015 2014 Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Waste production Landfill waste 1.2 6.7 4.5 Recycled waste 2.1 2.1 1.8 Total Waste 3.3 8.8 6.3 Board approval The Strategic Report as set out on pages 6 to 49 has been approved by the Board.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD Mike Humphrey Chairman 6 March 2017 49 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Develop To develop and support these opportunities into a diversified portfolio of robust businesses 50 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Our Governance Overview Board of Directors 52 Tissue Regenix Group Corporate Governance Statement 54 Making good commercial progress Committee Reports with US sales with DermaPure gaining Directors Remuneration Report 69 commercial traction within the US Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 88 wound care market.
Other Statutory Directors report 93 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 95 51 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM
