Our people Our talent strategy providing the platform for global growth Talent is a key component of our strategic objectives, which places our people strategy at the heart of our continuing road to success.
Our aim, first and foremost, is to ensure Multiple successors for every that we have the right people at the top of role and training the organisation and also that they in turn Increasingly, too, our focus is on succession have the right leadership teams in place planning at all levels.
Identifying multiple to deliver our strategic objectives.
successors for every role and leveraging the opportunities represented by mobility Of equal importance is to get the people between roles across our business are key who interface with our customers right constituents of our increasingly dynamic as these are the people who look after succession plan.
and build long-term relationships with our valued customers every day.
Succession planning extends outside the business.
As a company thats largely Talent: a strategic objective dedicated to direct rather than agency With those two requirements in place recruitment, our focused team-building everything else should follow.
We activities across the world are giving us continually strive to have a strong an ever-more complete picture of the framework for the Group especially leading talent in all the countries where given the size of the Company, its global we operate.
presence and the speed at which we are This is, of course, a distinct and growing growing.
We are also aware of the everadvantage for us.
However, it is of little The Group provides a great increasing competition in the market value unless we can attract and retain to secure the best talent.
working environment and that talent for the long-term benefit These are some of the reasons why we of the Company.
This driving need, sets the benchmark standard focus so much attention and effort on and the range of different experiences in its products and sales the attraction, development, growth and possessed by recruits as they join us, retention of the best individuals and teams means we need a very wide array of promotions.
We simply could not achieve training and learning interventions.
glad to work with such our growth objectives without a genuinely At a senior level, we enable executives world-class team across the Group, dynamic leadership.
to participate in leadership assessments particularly at its most senior levels.
We also Tarek Abou Zeinab, As our business continued to grow in partner with leading business schools, 2016, we kept our focus on building the Country Manager, employ internal coaches and mentors leadership teams of our regional CEOs Lebanon, Jordan, and carry out individualised, bespoke and our functional operations, constantly Saudi Arabia, training programmes.
searching for people with tremendous Iraq and capability, relevant experience and, Iran above all, plenty of development potential still ahead of them.
Because our business is growing and changing at such speed, our senior people need as much agility as the Company itself.
95,000 e-learning training modules completed in 2016 globally 20 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements All new team members in local markets have a specific new starter training programme supported by a peer level coach.
At the end of the new starter training, team members are accredited to start their career with the Company by their line manager and their coach after taking an online exam.
This way we can ensure the best people are looking after our customers and that there are no exceptions.
Gaining business advantage This is a vital focus for our business, because we know that no advantage is more powerful than a highly skilled and educated workforce, from top to bottom.
Reward, naturally, is another key focus in our effort to retain the best talent.
The competition for talent is unrelenting in our market, so we go to great lengths to ensure I love the fact that we never that our overall compensation structure is get stagnant.
We listen to our highly competitive.
We also ensure that high-potential people, at every level from customers needs and actually graduate recruit to the Exco, are tied in anticipate the changing needs with attractive incentives.
of their business and how Trying our hardest to develop the staff satisfaction that delivers loyalty and we can support them.
And retention is one thing measuring the were constantly growing success or otherwise of our efforts is quite another.
We are relatively rare in using the by broadening the reach Net Promotor Score to measure satisfaction where our customers on a quarterly basis.
Doing so with such regularity emphasises the importance want to do business.
of staff satisfaction in the minds of our Maria Paitchel, managers and leadership teams.
Area Vice President, As a result, managers at all levels are aware Connecticut, of the importance of valuing and caring for Westchester the talent further down the organisation.
& Long Our regional CEOs and functional teams Island undertake rigorous talent-planning programmes several times a year so that we are constantly aware of all high-potential people in the organisation and their state of development.
We believe that taking this approach to talent is key in driving our continued growth as the global leader of the WaaS sector.
