Strategic Report We know our customers better than anyone else Understanding our customers is essential to achieving our goal to be the most trusted retailer where peoplelove to work and shop.
Our customer insights inform the decisions we make each day.
During the year we introduced a new Similarly, we asked thousands of A key source of customer customer database system that gives us a customers what was important to them insight is our Nectar loyalty more holistic view of our customers, resulting about Christmas, and we developed our scheme.
This not only helps in an even better understanding of our award-winning Christmas is for Sharing customers, allowing us to meet their needs us to know our customers campaign, featuring Mog the Cat.
It was in a personalised and more effective way.
deemed the most popular Christmas better than anyone else, but We consult with our customers regularly in advertising campaign in terms of online also enables us to tell our a number of different ways.
We launched views and by industry experts.
Mogs customers about products our online consumer panel, Trolley Talk, 18 Christmas Calamity book topped the UK months ago through which we talk to 4,000 book charts for four weeks and, together and services that are most customers every week on a range of issues.
with author Judith Kerr and publisher relevant to them.
The insight we gain from these conversations Harper Collins, we donated more than helps us to make the right strategic decisions.
1.5million to Save the Children to support their literacy campaign in the UK.
We conducted considerable research with our customers on pricing.
They told us that Our Nectar loyalty scheme is another key multi-buy promotions do not meet their source of customer insight.
Over 15 million shopping needs today and that they were Nectar card holders shop with us instores, confusing, creating storage challenges in the online and with Sainsburys Bank.
We can home and unnecessary waste.
This led us reward them for their loyalty across our to simplify our pricing, reducing prices on different products and services.
Bonus point hundreds of lines across our grocery ranges events, such as Nectar Double-Up, Swipe in favour of lower regular prices.
We will be and Win and 10x Nectar points on fuel, are the first major retailer in the UK to remove multi-buy promotions across the vast majority extremely popular with more customers of our grocery business by August 2016. participating every year.
This year we are replacing our Brand Match Our Little Twists campaign inspired many scheme with lower regular prices.
All the of our customers to break from their routine money from the scheme will be reinvested and give everyday dishes a delicious into lowering the price of popular products.
new twist, such as adding horseradish We will continue to monitor the prices of to macaroni cheese and ginger beer to a branded products to ensure we remain traditional roast lamb.
competitive, and offer customers great value.
CSI Customer Satisfaction Tracking for superstores 2015 16 Since we introduced this simpler pricing strategy our price satisfaction scores have 1 increased and we have seen growth in volumes and transactions.
14 Knowing our customers helps us to serve them better Leading customer insights Reward & loyalty Effective campaigns My local store #LittleTwists - Add stocks a wide ginger beer to your variety of products and I can usually lamb for a twist on get everything your favourite roast I want SAINSBURYS CUSTOMER WEST MIDLANDS
