Governance Report Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee The strategic review process looked at research into what our customers care about.
We know our customers care about a wide range of issues.
Our Closer to Jean Tomlin, Customers insight launched in May 2015 and looked at what corporate Chair of responsibility areas matter most to our customers.
Resoundingly, food waste Corporate emerged as a top priority where our customers wanted our support in managing household waste, and ultimately their household budget.
This led Responsibility and to the launch of our Waste less, Save more initiative, a 10 million investment Sustainability in helping our customers reduce their food waste by engaging communities, Committee schools and organisations in developing a blueprint for the nation to reduce domestic waste.
Highlights for us over the past year have been our Carbon Disclosure Project Score of 100 per cent, our highest score yet.
This made us one of 37 companies in the world awarded a position on the FTSE 350 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index CDLI.
We are also proud of the work we have achieved across our values, from supporting hundreds of local food donation partnerships to receiving gold accreditation from Investors in People, twice in a row the only retailer to have done so.
We also made great progress against our Sustainability Standards, successfully implementing our Farmed Prawn standard that works across our prawn farmers in Thailand.
Dear Shareholder, Whether it is our alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, our Waste less, Save more initiative or our work with suppliers to identify key risks Our values are part of our DNA at over the coming years, we are constantly looking for ways to improve the Sainsburys and fundamental to how we world around us through our business wherever we can.
We are always listening and Further information about our progress can be found at understanding the role that business plays www.
As Chair of the Boards Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee, I oversee the governance of our Sustainability Plan which spans our five values: Living healthier lives, Sourcing with integrity, Respect for our environment, Making a positive difference to our community and A great Jean Tomlin place to work.
Chair of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee This year marks the halfway point to 2020, since the launch of our plan in 2011 and we took this opportunity to undertake a strategic review of our Sustainability Plan, ensuring it was stretching and focused on the most material issues for our customers, colleagues, stakeholders and business.
This year also marked the launch of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, a set of global targets designed to improve the world by 2030.
As we reviewed our plan it was important that we aligned ourselves to this sustainable development agenda, as well as our business strategy.
We also wanted to be transparent and accountable through a clear set of KPIs that measures our performance across our Sustainability Plan.
58 Governance Report Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee Our Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee is chaired by Jean J Sainsbury Tomlin and attended by Mary Harris, Mike Coupe and David Tyler.
It met twice plc Board during the year to oversee the governance of each of our five values as well as David Tyler Corporate our Sustainability Plan.
Chairman Responsibility and Sustainability These formal Committee meetings were supported by Corporate Committee Responsibility and Sustainability CR&S stakeholder meetings that were Established January 2007, hosted by Jean Tomlin and Mike Coupe.
Each meeting is based around one of meets twice annually our five values and key external stakeholders are invited to attend including Jean Tomlin, Chair representatives from the government, industry, non-governmental organisations Non-Executive Director CR&S Steering Group and key suppliers to our business.
During the year three such meetings were Established 2001, held, relating to the values areas of Sourcing with integrity, Respect for our meets twice annually environment and Making a positive difference to our community.
Mike Coupe Chairman, Chief Executive The Committee is supported by an internal CR&S governance structure whereby members of the Operating Board have responsibility for each of our Living healthier Health lives five values and sit on our CR&S Steering Group, chaired by Mike Coupe.
Steering Group Sarah Warby Themembers of this biannual Steering Group are shown below.
Marketing Director The terms of reference of the Committee are available at Sourcing with integrity www.
Product Paul Mills-Hicks Forum Food Commercial Director Our Sustainability Plan Sustainability is at the core of our business strategy.
Throughout our Respect for our environment 147-year history, we have strived to lead by acting as a responsible retailer.
Environment John Rogers Examples of our contribution over the past decade include supporting the Steering Chief Financial Officer future of British farming, transforming the market for fairly traded products and Group sustainable seafood, improving animal welfare and championing food waste.
Making a positive difference to our During the year we refreshed our Sustainability Plan and formalised our community Community activities against our values in light of the new and changing issues that Jon Hartland interim Steering Acting Retail and Operations Group todays world faces.
We launched this in December 2015 to our stakeholders, Director sharing our vision and plan for the next five years.
In developing the plan we undertook a detailed auditing and consultation process.
We have continued A great place to work A Great to listen to our customers, colleagues, suppliers and stakeholders to make Place To Work Angie Risley sure we have the most relevant and effective strategy, leverage the Steering Group HR Director Group knowledge and experience of experts and remain at the forefront of sustainability between now and 2020 and beyond.
Further information about our approach can be found at www.
co. uk responsibility, with quarterly updates also given as part of our broader trading statements.
Ethical trading and the Modern Slavery Act Our commitment to ethical trade is long-standing and as a founding member of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI we expect our policies, which are underpinned by the ETI base code, to be upheld throughout our supply-chains.
Extensive second and third party audits underpin our approach to assurance and we undertake, both collectively and solely, significant capacity and capability activities to ensure and improve standards within our global supply chains.
Examples of this include our collaborative working within project Issara, our strategic relationship and training programme with The Gangmasters Licensing Authority and a number of focused activities with our strategic suppliers.
The Modern Slavery Act, passed in March 2015, and the associated Transparency in Supply Chains Clause TISC, further reflect the importance and wide ranging nature of ethical trade.
The requirements to report against TISC are already being updated into our commercial terms and conditions.
As a business we will update more broadly on our approach to modern slavery in the context of the TISC guidance before the end of 2016, ahead of our first regulatory reporting requirement due by September 2017.
59 Governance Report Dual emissions reporting Greenhouse gas emissions Overall emissions have been presented to reflect both location and marketWe have measured our greenhouse gas GHG footprint since 2005 and set based methodologies, affecting both Scope 1 & Scope 2 emissions.
Scope 1: ourselves a challenging target to reduce our emissions by 30 per cent by 12 per cent of total natural gas usage is covered by Green Gas Certification 2020, compared to our baseline and 65 per cent relative to sales floor area.
100 per cent Renewable Gas Guarantee of Origin Contract : therefore 12 per cent of natural gas emissions have been reported at zero emissions.
All other For further information on initiatives to reduce our GHG footprint, please refer Scope 1 market-based emissions have been calculated using UK to our Sustainability Plan available at www.
Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2015 for all sources.
Scope 2: 17 per cent of UK electricity is covered by a PPA, which Location-based emissions meets all of the required quality criteria: therefore 17 per cent of UK electricity emissions have been reported at zero emissions.
Remaining UK electricity has In 2015 16 our emissions reduced by 3.11 per cent.
been reported at supplier-specific emissions rate.
Non-UK electricity has been reported at local grid average.
GHG emissions tCO e 2 2005 06 Electricity use Emission source baseline 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 Our absolute electricity consumption has decreased this year by 2.74 per cent, Combustion of fuel and operation as a result of our investment in energy reduction initiatives, for example fitting of facilities Scope 1 536,694 635,191 571,673 601,091 our 355,000 sq ft distribution centre in Tamworth with over 4,000 solar panels.
Electricity, heat, steam and Overall, our energy reduction measures have decreased absolute electricity cooling purchased for own use by over ten per cent since 2005 06 despite a 53% increase in sales area.
use Scope 2 833,805 737,074 794,429 722,512 Total 1,370,499 1,372,266 1,366,102 1,323,603 Methodology Intensity measurement We have reported on all of the emission sources required under tCO e 000 sq ft 90.36 61.93 59.87 57.05 2 theCompanies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
We have calculated and reported our emissions in line with theGHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and ReportingStandard revised edition and Intensity ratio emission factors from UK GovernmentsGHG Conversion Factors for Company In order to express our annual emissions in relation tothe growth of our Reporting 2015.
The reportingperiod is the financial year 2015 16, thesame business, we report an emissions intensity measurement, calculated using as that covered by the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Using this measure, our emissions intensity decreased boundaries of the GHG inventory are defined using the operational control by over 4.7 per cent in 2015 16 and has decreased by over 36.8 per cent since approach.
In general, the emissions reported are the same as those which 2005 06. would be reported based on a financial control boundary.
Market-based emissions The market-based emissions method reflects the emissions from the electricity that a company is using, which may be different from emissions for the electricity that is generated as a UK average.
For example, different electricity suppliers emit more or less greenhouse gases depending on the energy source or technology, and companies who have invested in their own renewable or low carbon energy generation by this method can show the actual emissions level for the energy used.
Using this methodology our total absolute GHG emissions in 2015 16 are lowered by 192,799 tCO e 14.6 per 2 cent.
As this is the first year this method has been used it is not possible to compare to previous years.
GHG emissions tCO e 2 Emission source 2015 16 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 589,702 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Scope 2 541,102 Total 1,130,804 Intensity measurement tCO e 000 sq ft 48.74 2 60
