Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility Committed to our communities and energy.
For example, any new centres At IWG, our commitment to the future of our communities continues with high energy consumption, such as to grow and develop as we expand into more locations around the those acquired from Avanta in 2015, will be reviewed and assimilated in 2017 to world.
We bring positive change and investment to new and existing make them more efficient and align them locations.
We can only continue to grow ourselves by lifting others with our Greener Working Strategy.
will include upgrading lighting to LED and reviewing HVAC heating, ventilation and air-conditioning and controls to ensure We took part in the Global Carbon Economic support for communities they are as energy-efficient as possible.
Although we are a worldwide organisation, Disclosure Project CDP and received a strong B score for 2016.
This is a good A review undertaken in the early part of we constantly remember that for the majority of our stakeholders we are a improvement from the previous year and 2016 confirmed that our UK business is a positive indicator from the CDP that we on target to achieve a 50% reduction in local business.
Our presence generates wealth for each location as we employ are managing our carbon well.
With the energy-related carbon by 2020 using industry average being a C, our score 2007 as the baseline year.
local talent from within the community and draw on local supply-chain networks.
demonstrates very clearly that we are Charitable investments being proactive in responding to climateOur business attracts new organisations As a global business working in numerous to the area, helping to improve and grow change issues.
locations, we have a responsibility to the business environment and in turn Efficiency schemes ensure that we can positively impact the bringing further investment and local In addition to our global efforts, we made communities in which our team members, opportunities to each location.
We have a significant reduction in carbon and customers, suppliers and other a symbiotic relationship with each local costs in 2016 in the UK.
This can largely stakeholders live.
As a company, we provide community we can only be successful be attributed to the implementation of concessions on working space, direct if those around us are also successful.
recommendations from the UKs response donations and the use of our facilities Reducing environmental impact to the EU Energy Directive entitled Energy to support the charitable activities of Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS.
our staff, customers and suppliers.
IWG is conscious of its environmental responsibilities.
Any actions we take as Around 1,000 CO e tonnes were saved, 2 Our colleagues actively take part in together with related cost avoidance of a company to diminish carbon emissions creating charitable initiatives that will help to reduce negative global impacts.
270,000, which we achieved through a provide financial donations to charities systematic review of centre operating We are committed to reducing our global and humanitarian appeals.
They collect footprint and to keeping sustainability at procedures and controls.
The ESOS audit gift in-kind materials, such as food, the core of our business strategy: we do and notification from the UK was fully hygiene and education items, and this by focusing on internal mitigation compliant and completed on time.
So was donate their skills and time in volunteering measures and supporting our customers our participation for a further year in the to organisations in need.
CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, in which eagerly attended and supported by our we saw our overall reported emissions fall By their very nature, many of our products customers and wider stakeholders.
This means we have achieved a total are inherently sustainable allowing our Thanks to our employees spirit of reduction of around 18% since the start of customers to minimise their carbon innovation and enthusiasm for various CRC reporting in 2011. emissions, waste and energy usage through causes, our charitable activities take many us.
Our large network of locations enables The Green Committee continues to meet on forms, including in-centre initiatives such a regular basis.
It reviews and implements people to work nearer to where they live, as recycling projects, charitable networking while our video-conferencing facilities the actions we take and their related costs events and collections campaigns and to reduce our waste, water, energy and eradicate the need to travel for meetings.
off-site activities such as sponsored walks, carbon impacts.
The Green Committee is As a company, we continue to embed fun-runs and volunteering at venues like proving successful and is seen throughout orphanages, care homes and soup kitchens.
carbon-reduction and energy-efficiency the Group as an effective model in policies and procedures in our centres.
In total 237,479 was raised and sustainability management.
This includes retrofitting older sites by used to support 244 projects for 239 upgrading lighting and improving controls.
We continue to use specialist external charities.
Further detail is provided in energy consultancies to record our monthly We also have a defined engagement the table below: agenda with a focus on enabling customers energy consumption across our centres and to assist and advise on the purchase, and employees to fully understand the actions that they can take to reduce management and monitoring of carbon environmental impact.
Our range of initiatives includes targeting reduced 2013 2014 2015 2016 paper usage, actions to reduce and monitor our use of water, increased recycling and Countries with community engagement activity 20 38 43 44 sharing best practice to reduce electricity Projects 54 132 219 244 and gas consumption.
Collectively, all Charities supported 78 100 195 239 actions combine to contribute to Donations made 80,500 155,329 209,905 237,479 reducing our environmental impact.
33 Corporate responsibility continued COMMUNITY HEROES Our internal community recognition programme Community Heroes commends and celebrates the charitable giving that takes place across the world.
This year, two projects tied for first place.
They each received a $5,000 donation for the charities they support.
The top projects in 2016 were: EXTRACTING VALUE FROM WASTE As an example of other geographic specific initiatives, our colleagues in Fortaleza, Brazil, continued their successful recycling programme throughout 2016, encouraging customers and their colleagues to collect and segregate paper, cardboard, plastic cups, toner cartridges and other Tied 1st place: Dallas, USA Raising Our clients really embraced supporting office waste.
Rather than disposing awareness of childhood cancer this cause as through it they were also of this waste, they give it to a local supporting our IWG colleague a two-time orphanage which donates the recycled A networking event was held in support of Childhood Cancer Awareness Month.
childhood cancer survivor who strongly material and in turn receives a reduced believed in this cause.
All clients in the centre attended, and several Business World clients also Colleagues are holding similar initiatives made an appearance.
in the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom.
They collect old printer cartridges, coffee capsules and even stamps to donate to charities, which as a result gain new revenue streams to help sustain their future.
Tied 1st place: Maryland, USA You feel great to be involved in such a good thing, together with good people Fighting hunger among children who are doing GREAT things.
Canned foods were collected throughout the year to provide under-privileged children with a meal a day.
All quotes are from IWG managers, colleagues or customers.
34 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements RESPONDING TO DISA STER Around the globe, our colleagues and stakeholders respond rapidly to environmental disasters affecting their regions, working together to provide support to those impacted.
For example, our colleagues in Texas, together with their customers, quickly responded to a humanitarian effort following a tornado in their area.
A donation drive was immediately organised calling for first aid kits, bedding, clothing and 2nd place: Thailand Providing for The sale of over 200 shirts went hygiene materials.
Several individuals vulnerable children towards helping buy school uniforms also volunteered to help clean up sites and stationery supplies for children Thailands underprivileged children after the event.
were helped through charitable donations living in poverty.
to the Gift of Happiness Foundation.
FACILITATING DON ATIONS To make it easier for our employees and customers to give to charity, we have continued the My Charities and Causes 3rd place: India Supporting the 4th place: South Africa Giving 12 platform.
This enables customers to set International Day of Charity months of love for charity up and promote their own corporate Colleagues and customers in India Our South African centre in Port Elizabeth social responsibility activities, track launched a country-wide charitable teamed up with Port Elisabeths Love progress and record donations to campaign, in which over 400 people in Story charity to reach out and feed the over 1.6 million registered charities.
more than 90 centres joined hands with homeless.
We believe that this platform will help a local non-governmental organisation.
Regus gives back to the community and provide even more support to all the Collecting stationery items, clothes, helps us give back too.
Thank you Regus great causes around the globe.
books, toys and food was a wonderful for helping us make a positive impact.
activity for very worthwhile causes.
