Strategic Report There for our customers Shopping behaviour is changing and our customers have responded well to the choice and flexibility we offer across our supermarket, convenience and online businesses.
Customer shopping behaviour is changing, such as Argos, Timpsons, Centre for People increasingly want driven by competitive dynamics and the Dentistry and Explore Learning.
In this way the flexibility to shop in a growth of technology.
People increasingly we are giving customers increased choice, number of different ways want the flexibility to shop in a number achieving the best use of our supermarket and we have developed our of different ways and we have developed space, and making our stores destination our multi-channel strategy to make it easy shopping locations.
multi-channel strategy to for them to shop with us whenever and make it easier for them to wherever they want.
With customer shopping patterns continuing shop with us whenever to change, we believe there is great potential and wherever they want.
in tailoring our store formats and product Supermarkets ranges to meet evolving needs.
We have been Supermarkets represent our biggest trialling new formats in our supermarkets, source of turnover and we now trade in 601 testing different store layouts to cater for a supermarkets across the UK.
In the financial wider range of shopping missions.
As part of year we opened six stores including two 601 this trial we are reviewing how we can offer replacements, and also refurbished seven customers easier and quicker ways to shop, We have 601 supermarkets.
checkout and pay in our stores.
supermarkets and Given the size and locations of our stores, 773 convenience The estimated market value of properties, we have a structurally advantaged estate including our 50 per cent share of properties stores which enables us to meet our customers held within property joint ventures, is varied and changing shopping needs.
The 0.5 billion decrease during Around a quarter of our stores will have the year was mainly due to a reduction in some under-utilised space over the next five market rental values and a yield movement.
This space is being used to extend We are maximising the value of our property our clothing and general merchandise offer assets by working with joint venture to more of our stores, as well as widening partners to develop new leisure, residential the existing selection in stores that already and commercial opportunities while also sell non-food ranges.
A comprehensive adding trading space to our estate.
Our non-food range is now available in 439 of 500 million development at Nine Elms will our supermarkets so there are significant launch in 2016 17 with a new Sainsburys opportunities to expand into more stores to supermarket, 730 homes and shops and reach more customers.
We are also developing plans for replacement stores at Whitechapel and Ilford The remaining excess space is being used to which will provide 1,240 homes and new jobs.
enhance customer choice and convenience with carefully selected concession partners 20 Our supermarket stores are the right size and in the right locations Making the best use of our supermarket space Trials of new formats in selected stores I can shop online and, where I live, there is a superstore and brilliantly sized convenience store.
Concessions give This gives me all the customers even options I need to make my life easier more choice SAINSBURYS CUSTOMER SOUTH EAST and convenience Strategic Report There for our customers We are investing in the right infrastructure experiencing food price deflation.
We have to support the growth of our business and taken a disciplined approach to new space to help us serve our customers better.
We this year, opening 69 convenience stores and Sainsburys has good operate 23 distribution centres to service by the end of the year we traded out of 773 opening hours, lots of our supermarkets, convenience stores and convenience stores.
We opened a new one conveniently located million sq ft general merchandise depot at We are trialling new convenience formats, stores, plenty of Daventry International Rail Freight Terminal, both smaller and larger than our standard self-checkouts and potentially creating 900 jobs and upgraded convenience stores.
Our new micro a good online our Basingstoke distribution centre.
753sqft store in Richmond is the smallest Sainsburys Local to date, and it is designed shopping service Convenience to meet the needs of people working in the SAINSBURYS CUSTOMER area who want to buy food for now.
Customers increasingly top up their shopping LONDON locally and our convenience store business We were delighted to be named generates sales of over 2.3 billion.
Our Convenience Retailer of the Year for convenience business delivered over nine the sixth consecutive year at the Retail per cent sales growth during the year Industry Awards.
despite the business being impacted by a higher proportion of categories that are 69 New Local stores opened this year Convenience stores Convenience now generates sales of over 2.3 billion.
Sales grew over 9% Our new Micro Convenience store opened in Richmond in March 22 Strategic Report Sales growth by area Customers are choosing to shop across channels and are using convenience and online more frequently, leading to a decline in supermarket sales.
Itis therefore important that we invest strategically so that we can serve our customers whenever and wherever theywant.
Definition: Year-on-year growth of total sales, including VAT, excluding fuel.
Sales growth by channel Supermarkets % Online, Click 2013 14 1.0 2014 15 2.2 & Collect 2015 16 1.6 Online orders grew by Convenience % nearly 15% and we will 2013 14 19.0 double our Click & 2014 15 16.3 Collect sites 2015 16 9.3 next year Online % East London, this year.
This will provide us Online 2013 14 12.3 with the additional capacity we need to Our online business continues to grow, 2014 15 7.1 meet the increasing customer demand.
across both food and clothing.
Groceries 2015 16 8.8 Online grew by nearly nine per cent with Netto orders increasing by nearly 15 per cent.
Working with our partner Dansk We had a record week in the run up to Supermarked we have opened 15 stores.
Christmas, delivering over 289,000 orders, We have trialled a variety of location types both to customers homes and to the 101 Multi-channel to help build our insight and continue to grocery Click & Collect sites we have opened benefit from operational insights in our at our stores across the country.
These We have developed core business.
We will now review the sites have proved to be popular with our our multi-channel performance of the business in light of the customers and we are aiming to double strategy to make it overall market and we will communicate our thenumber of Click & Collect sites by the next steps for the business at our Interim easy for customers end of the financial year.
Results in November 2016. toshop with us We pick our grocery online orders from stores: this makes good commercial, logistical and operational sense as we are using existing resources that are within easy reach of where our customers live.
As Click & Collect gains in popularity, picking orders in-store saves time and minimises additional transport and handling costs.
However, demand for Groceries Online in thedensely populated and fast-growing London area is so great that we will open a purpose-built online fulfillment centre in Bromley-by-Bow, 23
