Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility By supporting our people we help them to grow and develop Introduction their skills and long-term career aspirations, which in turn James Fisher is committed to good governance and rewards the Group by securing the dedication and motivation the principles of honesty, integrity and fairness, which, in of those employees.
Keeping our people inspired remains the Companys view, are the key elements for building a one of our highest priorities and so we focus on creating sustainable and profitable business.
Corporate responsibility an environment where performance is rewarded, people remains central to the delivery of our business strategy.
This are respected for their contributions, diversity and inclusion report will explain how we applied the principles of good is encouraged and where integrity is upheld in all aspects governance throughout the year in key areas and outlines of our work.
The Group remains committed to providing the processes and controls we use to manage the Groups equal opportunities free of discrimination and to developing approach to business ethics, environmental, health and social and retaining talent to maximise business growth and responsibilities.
Our Board of Directors sets the strategic and performance.
financial objectives for the Group and in doing so requires and seeks to ensure that the Group maintains high ethical The Company also recognises the need to provide flexible standards of behaviour throughout its businesses.
The Group working practices to support the needs of employees to has well established policies on business ethics, anti-bribery maintain a successful work-life balance.
In support of this the and corruption, whistleblowing and diversity which support Company operates a flexible working policy.
our approach to corporate responsibility.
The effectiveness Our people are informed on matters affecting their of these policies and procedures is regularly monitored and employment and business developments in the Group reviewed to ensure that they align with our Group strategy.
through management briefings and newsletters, the We require all our people to conduct themselves to the Companys website, the Groups intranet resource and by the highest level of ethical conduct in their business activities and distribution of Preliminary and Interim Announcements and to comply with relevant laws, regulations and standards of press releases.
Copies of the Annual Report and Accounts market practice in all jurisdictions where the Group operates.
are also made available to the operating businesses and We do not permit bribery, illegal or corrupt business practices this communication process enables employees to gain an and our whistleblowing procedure allows employees to raise understanding of the Groups objectives and performance any malpractice concerns they may have in an appropriate and how they have contributed to those results.
forum without fear of recourse.
We operate in a competitive marketplace and the Board recognises the importance of rewarding employees Our people appropriately for the value they bring to the business.
It aims We recognise that the success of our business depends on to offer rewards that attract and retain key talent.
Employees throughout the Group are encouraged to participate in training and development The Company also enables its employees to share in its programmes and to obtain professional qualifications relevant successes through share ownership.
At 31 December to their roles.
In order to develop this further, the Group has 2016, 293 employees were participants of the James Fisher broadened its management development and graduate Sharesave Scheme 2015: 290. recruitment programmes, which focus on recruiting talented graduates and developing skills and experience to produce potential future managers.
The Company has also established a dedicated Learning and Development team who deliver in-house training to employees throughout the Group on a wide variety of personal development topics, tailored to each business to give the employees targeted, bespoke training which will advance their development.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23 James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate responsibility continued The Group Health and Safety Committee GHSC, chaired by Our commitment to equal opportunities Nick Henry, meets on a quarterly basis to discuss all health and diversity and safety issues including incidents, mitigating actions and It is the Companys policy to ensure that all employees and training requirements.
The GHSC ensures that recordable potential employees are treated fairly regardless of their safety incidents are reported to the Board and each Group race, beliefs, gender identity, age, marital status, sexual operating company is maintaining high standards of health orientation or disability.
We aim to ensure that people from any and safety in its business.
Through the GHSC, the Group background or of any gender identity have equal access to shares best practice and lessons learnt following any health employment, training and career progression opportunities.
and safety incidents, including near misses, to mitigate the We strive to select individuals on merit and do not consider risk of recurrence.
that targets or quotas are appropriate.
The Groups principal operating companies maintain The Board recognises that having a diverse workforce allows internationally recognised Occupational Health and Safety the Group to better meet the differing requirements of our Management Systems accredited to OHSAS 18001 global customer base.
Our strategy is to identify current and and management systems which are accredited to the or future potential successors to senior management roles international quality standard ISO 19001.
The Group has throughout the Group and gender diversity is encouraged by adopted the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous the Board.
Occurrences Regulations 2013 RIDDOR in the reporting of recordable incidents.
Set out below is a breakdown of the average number of persons by gender and category throughout the Group: A reportable incident under RIDDOR is a work-related injury which results in a persons incapacitation for more than seven 2016 2015 days.
The number of reportable incidents across the Group in 2016 was 5 2015: 5.
Male Female Male Female The Group also records lost time accidents LTAs to Main Board Directors 6 1 6 1 monitor performance and trends.
An LTA is where a worker is incapacitated for three or more consecutive days, not Senior Managers 47 9 41 9 including the day of incident.
The Group monitors its overall RIDDOR reportable frequency All of our employees are treated with respect and dignity.
rate, defined as the number of LTAs per one hundred Harassment of any kind is not tolerated.
It is our policy and thousand hours of work.
In 2016, the Groups RIDDOR practice to give full and fair consideration to job applicants reportable frequency rate was 0.1 2015: 0.1. with disabilities.
If an employee became disabled during the course of their employment, wherever practicable, the How we manage our environmental Group would make every effort to ensure that arrangements and adjustments are made and that, where required, impact appropriate training is provided to allow them to continue The Group is committed to operating its businesses in an their employment.
environmentally responsible manner and recognises that its operations have an impact on the environment.
The Group Health and safety is committed to working within the appropriate regulatory The Group is fully committed to delivering the highest frameworks to minimise the impacts of its operations on the standards of safety to its employees and to visitors to environment.
We continue to strive towards our Nearly all of our principal operating companies are ultimate aim of having no accidents or injuries and we have ISO 14001 compliant.
This internationally recognised a proactive safety culture across the Group which promotes environmental management system enables a systematic compliance and ensures continuous improvement.
We have approach to handling environmental issues.
a strong focus on employee training, regulatory compliance and accident reduction, all of which are monitored and reported on across the Group.
Accountability remains with local management who are best placed to ensure that their businesses comply with local laws and regulations and specific needs on a day to day basis.
This is also in accordance with our decentralised management approach.
This is overseen by Nick Henry, the Chief Executive Officer, who has overall responsibility for health and safety.
The review of health and safety performance is high on the agenda at each Board and business board meeting and remains a top priority for our Group.
24 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Energy consumption was measured across the Group by Our ethical business principles recording data on the combustion of fuel and the use of As a Group we aim to act responsibly and ethically in all of electricity at its facilities.
The Groups total greenhouse gas our business dealings.
Through our ethics policy we aim to emissions GHG are set out below.
instill the highest standards of business behaviour across the Group and we focus on embedding a culture of ethical Emissions total in thousands of metric tons compliance so that all of our people understand the standards of ethical business practice that are expected of them.
As well 2016 2015 as protecting the reputation of the Group and safeguarding CO equivalent from electricity 2 the investment of our shareholders, the business ethics policy 3.0 2.7 consumption in facilities aims to protect the interests of every employee by ensuring CO2 from combustion of fuel at legal and regulatory compliance as well as promoting 2.9 2.6 facilities and road vehicles responsible behaviour across the Group.
CO2 from combustion of fuel in 83.9 65.0 The Group has an established anti-bribery and corruption vessels policy and has introduced a compliance programme which Total emissions CO2 89.8 70.3 has the support of the Board and senior management within the Group.
The programme includes communication of the Emissions from the combustion of bunkers on our Tankships statement and policy, training, risk assessment, monitoring business amounted to 93% of the Groups total emissions and review processes.
Employees assessed to be at risk are 2015: 93%.
However one 4,000 metric ton vessel can required to complete the training and to self-certify that they carry 150 times the volume of fuel transported by a single understand and agree to be bound by its provisions.
road tanker, which significantly reduces congestion and On-going compliance is monitored by local compliance emissions to air.
In 2016, the Groups electricity consumption officers who are required to report to their local boards and increased primarily due to the acquisition of Hughes and to the Group Compliance Officer on at least a biannual basis.
Emissions from fuel combustion in vessels increased The compliance officers are responsible for ensuring that risk principally as a result of growth in vessel charters for the assessments, training and awareness are carried out where renewables market.
appropriate and are kept up to date.
They are also required The Groups carbon intensity ratio calculated against the to monitor, record and report agency arrangements with third Groups revenue which increased by 6% remained flat parties to ensure that all our business dealings are appropriate at 0.02% 2015: 0.02%.
Our Tankships division operates and within our ethical framework.
a Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan to regulate shipping energy efficiency and to control its marine GHG Customers emissions.
Waste management and recycling of materials is Our customers are extremely important to us.
The Group encouraged across the Group and in an effort to reduce our aims to provide superior customer service through value carbon emissions from travelling to and from meetings, the added solutions combined with high quality products.
First use of video conferencing and similar facilities is widely used class customer service and innovation are critical to our throughout the Group.
Human rights We appreciate that every customer has different needs James Fisher is committed to supporting and respecting and expectations and we have developed long lasting human rights in the workplace and in the communities in relationships with customers and suppliers over many years which it operates across its international business.
We to help customers find the solutions they need.
We have have implemented work practices and policies throughout followed a customer-led strategy with regards to expansion the Group which are designed to ensure that respect for into the international markets and we are proud to be a human rights is integrated into the systems and culture trusted partner of many major corporations, government of our businesses.
We do not tolerate the use of child or agencies and customers around the world.
We understand forced labour within our business and take all steps possible that a continued commitment to our existing and future to ensure that our suppliers and customers also uphold customers is fundamental to our success and so we strive internationally recognised human rights.
to work hard to understand our customers needs and to continue delivering customer satisfaction.
Suppliers Our businesses have developed their own long-term relationships with suppliers based upon best practice, legal requirements and Group policies and procedures.
Group companies promote social responsibility, trade compliance and anti-corruption within their own supplier base and key suppliers are vetted to ensure that they adhere to all Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25 James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate responsibility continued relevant laws, our policies and codes of conduct and, where British Heart Foundation, the Royal Marine Benevolent Fund, appropriate, operate within internationally recognised quality, Martins House Childrens Hospice, Act 4 Africa and the health and safety and management systems.
The Sir John Fisher Foundation SJFF is a charitable trust Giving back to the community established in 1979 by Sir John and Lady Fisher and supports The Group continues to encourage its businesses to support causes throughout the UK, but with special regard to those local communities within their operational areas and during based in and working for the benefit of people living in the year our people have given their time and money to a wide Barrow-in-Furness and the surrounding area.
The Trustees range of charitable giving and fund raising activities.
of SJFF retain a significant shareholding in the Company and support charitable causes in relation to maritime, medical and Charitable causes supported in 2016 included: Macmillan disability, education, music, arts and community projects.
Cancer Support, the Movember Foundation, the Lawhill In 2016 the Foundation made grants or commitments to Maritime Centre in South Africa, Cancer Research, the charitable causes of 2.3m 2015: 1.7m.
New lifeboat for Workington Royal National Lifeboat Institution RNLI The Workington RNLI Station is based at the Prince of Wales Dock in Workington and covers the dangerous seas off the West Cumbrian coast.
The conditions can be particularly hazardous due to the large tidal range, strong onshore winds and the limited number of safe ports at which the crew can dock.
Workington is the only RNLI station to have an all-weather lifeboat, which they launch by a davit system over the dock wall.
Their current vessel, the Sir John Fisher, was purchased with a donation from SJFF and since its naming ceremony in 1994 has saved 73 lives and brought 324 people safely ashore.
Although still in excellent condition, its class has now been superseded by the Shannon class lifeboat and in 2016 SJFF contributed 0.5m towards the 2.1m cost of a new vessel.
The vessel, designed entirely in-house by RNLI naval architects and under construction in Poole, is an all-weather lifeboat with an operational radius of 150 nautical miles, allowing the crew to reach casualties a further 20 nautical miles out to sea.
It can also operate in shallow waters and can be intentionally beached, permitting a broader range of rescue mission whilst coping with the roughest of weather conditions off the West Cumbrian coast.
The new vessel will be delivered in 2017.
Trustees from Sir John Fisher Foundation with RNLI Workington lifeboat crew.
