STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We see it as essential to act in the interests of all our stakeholders in particular our clients, our people, our shareholders and our trading partners in order to build a sustainable, long-term business: one that balances risk with opportunity and that makes a positive contribution to the communities in which we live and work.
We also recognise that one of the key duties which our Directors have under the Companies Act 2006 the Act is to promote the success of JLT for the benefit of its shareholders, whilst having regard to the interests of the Company's broad range of other stakeholders and wider social responsibilities.
In this section we review the activities of the Group over the past year in terms of how we have sought to fulfil our Environmental, Social and Governance responsibilities.
Our CR Steering Group actively pursues the achievement MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE of higher standards in both our socially responsible behaviours, RESPONSIBILITY and our capacity to measure and benchmark those behaviours for our stakeholders.
Our approach to Corporate Responsibility CR has a strong In 2016, we expanded the Steering Group to include senior focus on the interests of our clients.
Our clients increasingly representation for each of JLTs main operating companies, seek evidence that their service providers are well governed, worldwide.
These designated representatives are responsible and that we make a sustainable, positive contribution to solving for driving CR activity at a local level and liaise closely with the the challenges that face our communities, our society and Steering Group.
The Group's approach to charitable giving is the environment.
It is therefore integral to our success that coordinated by the Group Charities Committee.
JLT demonstrates high standards of CR not only delivering the best commercial outcomes for our clients, but also taking every opportunity to do so in the most socially responsible and sustainable way.
At JLT our functional teams - including HR, Property Services, Procurement, Finance, Risk and Marketing have a strong focus on delivering CR-related projects.
Each of our businesses across the Group is also closely involved and colleagues around the world regularly volunteer for a wide range of activities.
The Group's CR strategy and activities are coordinated by the CR Steering Group, which is chaired by the Deputy Group CEO and has Board, Group Executive Committee and senior management membership.
JLT is proud to feature in the FTSE4Good ethical investment index.
46 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY We recognise that climate change and the scarcity of natural resources will pose an increasingly significant challenge to society over time.
We believe that JLT has a social responsibility to minimise our environmental impact as far as possible.
We therefore seek to take commercially sustainable measures to manage our environmental impact, including in how we manage our property portfolio.
For example, our preference is always to use energy-efficient lighting technologies where we can, and to take measures to use water efficiently.
JLT's total GHG emissions for 2016 were 19,448 tCO e. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 2 The largest proportion of JLT's GHG emissions can be In line with Mandatory Carbon Reporting MCR requirements accounted for by air travel which comprises 57% of the within the Companies Act 2006, this report outlines JLT's total emissions, equating to 11,066 CO e. 2 Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions covering the period As in previous years, to demonstrate JLT's emissions relative 1 January 2016 - 31 December 2016. to a quantifiable measure of its business activities, JLT has The scope of JLT's reporting encompasses its operational calculated its carbon intensity ratio on the basis of the number boundary and includes emissions associated with JLT's of JLT employees, as this is considered to relate to Company offices worldwide.
JLT has reported on the mandatory scopes growth and GHG emissions.
1 and 2, and for the optional scope 3 has opted to include The intensity ratio for 2016 is 1.74 tCO e employee.
global business travel given that air travel in particular is 2 acknowledged as a large contributor to greenhouse gas emissions and non-purchased electricity ie used by JLT but purchased by the landlord where available.
JLTS GHG EMISSIONS BY SCOPE AND INTENSITY RATIO Total Tonnes Scope Source Details Sub Total Tonnes CO e CO e 2015 Base Year Intensity Ratio 2 2 Purchased Natural gas purchased 207.23 Fuels directly by JLT Refrigerant leaks and top Fugitive emissions ups for equipment under 360.13 Scope 1 2,074.60 2,170.04 2,368.55 0.19 direct responsibility of JLT Transport owned Transport 1,507.24 or controlled by JLT Purchased Electricity Electricity purchased 2,591.59 2,591.59 2,829.67 3,842.87 0.23 Location Based directly by JLT Scope 2 Purchased Electricity Electricity purchased 2,319.34 2,319.34 2,713.75 3,842.87 0.21 Market Based directly by JLT Flights taken by Air Travel JLT employees for 11,066.09 business purposes Rail Travel by JLT Scope 3 Rail Travel UK Only employees for 181.16 14,782.14 13,406.19 11,908.57 1.32 business purposes Electricity used by Non Purchased Electricity JLT but purchased 3,534.89 by the landlord TOTAL LOCATION BASED 19,448.33 19,448.33 18,405.90 18,119.99 1.74 TOTAL MARKET BASED 19,176.08 19,176.08 18,289.98 18,119.99 1.71 Intensity Ratio Location Based 1.74 1.74 1.62 2.18 What is tCO e?
2 It is standard practice to report GHG emissions in tonnes of CO equivalents tCO e. This is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global warming potential of the GHG in relation 2 2 to the global warming potential of one unit of carbon dioxide.
The seven main greenhouse gases that are converted into tCO e are Carbon dioxide CO, Methane CH, Hydrofluorocarbons 2 2 4 HFCs, Nitrous oxide N O, Perfluorocarbons PFCs, Sulphur hexafluoride SF and Nitrogen trifluoride NF.
2 6 3 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 47 STRATEGIC REPORT JLTs GHG Emissions by Scope Carbon Intensity Ratio tCO e employee 2 Scope 1 11% 2.18 1.78 1.74 Scope 2 1.62 13% Scope 3 76% 2013 2014 2015 2016 METHODOLOGY YEAR-ON-YEAR REVIEW The methodology employed to calculate the GHG emissions is The total emissions associated with JLTs operations have in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Reporting and increased.
The intensity ratio of emissions per employee has Accounting Standard revised edition.
Data has been collated increased by 0.12 tCO e employee.
The number of employees 2 from JLT's global offices for electricity, fuels, refrigerants and has decreased slightly.
There has been a wider data set transport directly purchased or controlled by JLT, in line with included this year, for instance more countries able to report the mandatory scopes 1 and 2. on non-purchased electricity, and estimates include increased activity, for example in the USA.
With regard to the optional scope 3, JLT has included within its report emissions relating to air travel by its employees for The wider data set has meant that the scope 3 emissions business use as this recognised as a significant contributor has increased and both scopes 1 and 2 have decreased.
JLT has also reported on non-purchased JLT's focus on reducing its environmental impact extends electricity usage for countries that have this data available and beyond reporting on its emissions.
2016 has seen the design for the UK only, rail travel.
The relevant UK or international stage of the implementation of an Environmental Management emissions factors have been applied.
System which will continue to be progressed throughout 2017.
There were some limitations in reporting due to gaps in data, and where necessary every reasonable effort has been made RECYCLING to fill these and estimate data as accurately as possible.
For air travel, some countries were excluded as this data is not We actively promote recycling and encourage the removal of available for this reporting period.
JLT will be working with its general waste bins and the provision of sorting bins and facilities global offices to further improve data availability for the 2017 in our offices.
This initiative has been particularly successful in reporting period.
our London headquarters and in our Mumbai operations, which between them represent more than 30% of JLTs colleagues.
48 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION In London, the Corporation of Londons Clean City Awards scheme has awarded our London headquarters, The St Botolph Building, a Gold rating for its zero to landfill approach to waste management.
TRAVEL PAPER CONSUMPTION Where appropriate we will reduce our usage of any mode of We recognise both a cost benefit and an environmental benefit travel with teleconferencing and we continue to invest in our in limiting our consumption of paper, and seek to manage our teleconferencing infrastructure to reduce both the costs and consumption of paper with the environment in mind.
To that end the GHG impact of business travel, on a per capita measure.
we uphold the following principles: We now use around 80 teleconferencing suites installed in To use recycled paper for office purposes.
This is adopted our premises, adding further locations according to need.
within the UK and many non-UK offices.
We continue to invest in online collaboration platforms, to share To set laser printer defaults to two-sided printing.
Adopted knowledge and collaborate more efficiently across all markets, in JLT Group IT policy, this requirement is reducing paper ensuring that our expertise is available to service clients with the consumption and waste.
most efficient use of air travel.
Colleagues seeking expertise and Circulate documents eg meeting agenda and papers in a solutions for clients make new links daily across borders via our format that avoids the need for printing.
The Group Secretariat Chatter platform, for example.
employs software to issue committee papers electronically for We also monitor air travel usage retrospectively as part of our all major UK legal entities, saving on paper as well as reducing statutory GHG reporting responsibilities.
In 2016, our Group overheads associated with distribution.
Finance Director commissioned a project to deliver a Group wide view of our airline usage, to enable active management of our air travel usage across the world.
We have chosen to remediate wherever possible rather than offset.
The CR Steering Group reviews this position on a regular basis.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 49 STRATEGIC REPORT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our colleagues across the world are active and enthusiastic contributors to community life.
They take real pride in exercising their personal responsibility to make a positive contribution to the environment and to the communities in which they live and work.
We believe community engagement makes a positive difference to our team spirit and ultimately to the quality of the work our teams can deliver for clients.
JLT supports and encourages colleagues' initiatives this can include time off work to take part in volunteering activities and matched-funding to support charitable fund-raising.
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION CHARITY At JLT we aim to provide an inclusive working environment To maximise the impact we can have, we focus on 3 strategic that encourages everyone to fulfil their potential.
We believe partners aligned to our own business of sharing the social an inclusive culture encourages diversity, which in turn leads benefits of knowledge Specialty, wellbeing Employee Benefits to better business decisions and better solutions for clients, and resilience Reinsurance.
drawing on a wide range of experience.
We aim to recruit the Our current partners on these strategic themes are: Udaan most talented and ambitious people, irrespective of differences Foundation knowledge, Alzheimer's Society wellbeing and in education, religion, nationality, race, gender, age, physical RedR resilience.
We manage the majority of our charitable ability, social background or sexual orientation.
giving business-by-business, with a central fund to provide Having established our Diversity Committee in 2015, we defined greater support to our strategic partners.
JLTs Diversity agenda on the basis of three pillars - Networking, Sponsorship and Involvement.
In 2016 JLT supported many Charitable Donations as a percentage of PBT initiatives, both internally and in public events in the London 0.55% Market and other insurance hubs, to help to drive a more diverse and inclusive business and to play our part in solving 0.45% 0.42% these challenges in our industry.
All Employees Senior Management 71.7% 50.8% 49.2% 2014 2015 2016 We regularly engage clients in joint fund-raising activities 28.3% and see this as an important part of client relationship building.
A good example is JLTs annual golf days in aid of Sydneys Westmead Hospital, which to date have raised more than AU$1.6million for the Childrens Cystic Fibrosis clinic.
Male Female Male Female TOTAL: 10,454 employees TOTAL: 1,254 employees We actively manage the risk that charitable payments may be misused as inducements, with training and monitoring in Networking place as part of our bribery and corruption controls framework.
In 2016 in the UK, JLT became a corporate member of the City Women Network.
Additionally, JLT colleagues across the UK participated in the Women In Insurance iWin network and JLT joined the Gender Inclusion Network for Insurance.
Internationally, networking is underway in Asia & Australia, with an internal Diversity Network being established in the USA.
50 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION In 2016, our Solidria team in Brazil launched a joint project with JLT Brasil's insurance In June, alumni of JLTs International Senior Management Programme Class of 2012 market peers, Amanh Seguro, to create inclusive opportunities for children to build came together to raise funds for the Udaan Foundation with a sponsored skydive.
During 2012's ISMP programme the team formed an enduring bond with the Udaan school - and their bravery in 2016 raised more than 65,000.
In July, 40 boys from the Orlando West United Football Club, Johannesburg, visited On City Giving Day in September, JLT wore red for RedR, the disaster relief specialists, JLT South Africas offices to collect our donation of club equipment, part of JLT SAs to celebrate the launch of our new strategic partnership with the charity.
ongoing support for this community initiative.
US Specialty was among the proud sponsors of the 2016 Silver Bell Award, presented JLT Asia's support for Jardine Matheson's charity partner, Mindset, included a vertical at the SCI mariners welfare charity fundraising dinner in New York.
race in Singapore, raising funds for a new centre that now supports people with mental health issues back into an active life.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 51 STRATEGIC REPORT Sponsorship HUMAN RIGHTS & MODERN SLAVERY Our sponsorship of Lloyds Dive In festival Diversity and As an employer in both the developing and developed worlds Inclusion in Insurance continued for a second year, and we and with clients who have diverse businesses in some of the extended our support internationally with colleagues in Australia most remote and poor, as well as the most affluent, corners of being involved in the organisation of this event alongside the world, we recognise and support the need to work together hosting an event in our London headquarters.
to ensure that principles of respect, fairness and integrity remain We also hosted a number of events with other organisations at the heart of how we run our business.
including the Insurance Supper Club & Hiscox focused around We respect and uphold the human rights and principles set out Women in Leadership.
in detail in: JLT supports the Chartered Insurance Institutes involvement in The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights: and the HeForShe campaign which aims to achieve gender parity.
The International Labour Organisations Declaration on We recognise that making diversity part of our DNA demands Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work an inclusive environment.
To that end, we are piloting a training programme on 'unconscious bias' for hiring managers, to In 2016 we established a new process for evaluating risks in deploy in 2017.
Once complete, this training will feature in all of our Supply Chain in respect of the specific abuse of human our leadership and development programmes.
We are making rights that is human trafficking, in recognition of both the spirit the way we recruit more deliberately inclusive, and enhancing and letter of the UKs Modern Slavery Act.
In accordance with our ability to track and manage our performance on a range that Act, we now publish on our website an annual statement of relevant metrics.
detailing our commitments and the progress we are making towards assuring that our supply chain conforms to the principles we uphold.
HEALTH & WELLBEING As a major global provider of Employee Benefits services to SOCIAL BUSINESS & PRO BONO WORK our clients' employees, we have a natural insight into the health and welfare responsibilities of employers, especially through the We are increasingly looking for opportunities to apply our Occupational Rehabilitation services we deliver on behalf of our professional expertise to support the communities in which clients in various territories.
Our Local Community Insurance Services LCIS team in JLT Australia, for example, delivers low cost access We offer a range of standard and discretionary health benefits to insurance services for small not-for-profit organisations and to our employees in most territories, alongside support for clubs who might otherwise face insurmountable obstacles to healthy lifestyles such as the UK Cycle to Work scheme.
hosting events or accepting volunteers.
One of the five pillars of our global strategy is to create a At the same time, we are sometimes able to offer our specialist distinctive working environment for all our colleagues, a expertise Pro Bono for good causes, which we are pleased to contributor to good mental health.
The Wellbeing theme in our do whenever our expert advisers can spare some capacity.
To internal CR programme includes a range of activities with third date, JLT plans to develop simple reporting of the amount of parties, for example the Mindset charity in Hong Kong time volunteered by such colleagues, globally, in 2017. and Singapore, working with Jardine Matheson.
LABOUR STANDARDS As a specialist professional services firm, our exposure to the risk of low labour standards is not significant.
We are opposed to forced labour or child labour.
Our Employee Handbooks specify clear standards for acceptable working practices.
We apply due diligence in our procurement policy and processes to ensure that we work with appropriate sub-contractors.
In addition, our Employee Benefits business frequently helps clients to improve their own capabilities in the area of employee wellbeing through helping to minimise risks, deliver healthcare and rehabilitation support services, contributing to enhanced labour standards in the markets we serve.
52 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBILITY As a financial services Group with operations across the world, JLTs governance capability is highly developed.
We hold each other to high standards of integrity our culture is committed to transparency and fairness to the client, and the rigorous pursuit of their best interests.
This section highlights topics of particular relevance to Corporate Responsibility benchmarks.
For a fuller account, refer to the Risk Management section on pages 42 to 45 and the Corporate Governance Report on pages 55 to 62.
Over and above our contractual agreements with employees RISK MANAGEMENT and the awareness campaigns we share with all employees, The Group operates a '3 lines of defence' governance model.
we require colleagues to undergo regular training covering Risk The first line the business is responsible for the identification Management, Anti-Bribery & Corruption, Third Party Risks, Antiand management of all the risks inherent in its operations: Money Laundering, Information Security and Financial Conduct.
the second line Group Risk & Compliance provides advice, To supplement such national training programmes, in 2016 we guidance and challenge to the business: the third line launched a set of six principles-based learning modules in eight Group Internal Audit independently assesses and reports languages.
These cover Anti-Bribery & Corruption, Anti-Money on the effectiveness of governance, risk management Laundering, Anti-Fraud, Conflicts of Interest, Sanctions and and internal controls.
The Group operates an enterprise-wide Risk Framework, which is based around recognising good practice including WHISTLEBLOWING the Institute of Risk Management, ISO 31000 and COSO, and tailored to align with JLT's role as re insurance broker In 2016, JLT updated its global whistleblowing policy and and employee benefits solutions provider.
The Framework is implemented a new global third party hotline and website periodically reviewed to ensure that it remains appropriate, reporting system, to support those colleagues who might find and in keeping with the nature and scale of the Company themselves unable to report any wrongdoing or suspicions of and the landscape within which we trade.
wrongdoing through their normal line management channels.
The system conforms with the differing regulatory requirements For more detail on the specific risks we track and the of all the countries in which we operate, and gives colleagues governance structure we apply to maintain rigorous risk the option of complete confidentiality wherever this is permitted management, see pages 42 to 45. by law.
See also the Audit & Risk Committee Report on pages 63 to 70.
BRIBERY & CORRUPTION TAX TRANSPARENCY Integrity is at the heart of what we do, and who we are as a company.
Alongside our firm cultural commitment to excellence In 2016, JLT Group published its principles on tax transparency in risk management, our UK-based financial services companies on our website jlt.
We believe these principles are are subject to regulation by the UK Financial Conduct Authority based on good corporate practice in the area of tax FCA and observe the strictest standards of business conduct management and tax transparency, balancing the interests and regulatory compliance.
We will continue to revise and strengthen these principles as necessary, in response to the needs and We guard against bribery and corruption with rigour: the expectations of our stakeholders.
Board of JLT does not tolerate corrupt activity, and we fully investigate any concerns relating to bribery or corruption.
Our The Strategic Report is signed for and on behalf of the Board.
various Employee Handbooks, defining the terms under which JLT offers contracts of employment in different jurisdictions, specify in detail the rules our colleagues must observe.
These include rules on unauthorised payments, gifts and hospitality, anti-competitive practices, bribery, conflicts of interest, tax compliance, licensing, exchange controls, invoicing, proper Dominic Burke record-keeping, share dealing, fair and respectful treatment Group Chief Executive of colleagues and set out clear processes for whistleblowing 28 February 2017 more detail on which is provided below.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT This section includes a review of our corporate governance processes and summaries of the work of the Board and its Committees.
55 Corporate Governance Report 63 Audit & Risk Committee Report 71 Nominations Committee Report 73 Directors' Remuneration Report 92 Directors' Report
