Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate and Social Responsibility The Group recognises that it has a responsibility to Developing Our People ensure its business is carried out in a way that ensures The Group understands the importance of developing high standards of environmental and human behaviour.
our people across all levels and is committed to With the help and co-operation of all employees, the providing all employees with the tools to excel within Group endeavours to comply with all relevant laws their careers.
In order to facilitate this, learning and in order to meet that duty and responsibility wherever development solutions tailored and adjusted to meet it operates.
The major contributions of the Group in the ever changing requirements of a fast-paced, this respect are detailed below.
Training and Development Part of the foundation for internal progression is the Groups Trainee Management Academy, designed Who Are Our People?
to turn the most promising junior managers of today The Group is a large equal opportunities employer into the senior managers of tomorrow.
The Academy that is committed to providing exceptional prospects has already provided a number of key senior positions for its people to grow and develop within the business, within the business such as Area Sales Managers and investing heavily in attracting, recruiting and retaining key Head Office appointments, continually evolving its people.
During the year ended 30 January 2016, the Academy produced graduates The Group has grown significantly since its birth from France, Spain and the Netherlands and continues in 1981, and at the end of the financial year employs to expand its international influence.
over 19,000 people, across all aspects of the business.
Internal progression is a fundamental value of the The development across all territories is provided by business and is key to the future expansion of the the established Learning & Development department.
Group, promoting the core values and DNA throughout.
The team operates across all of the Groups fascias and The Group promotes career development both in the territories, as well as Head Office and the Distribution UK and internationally, employing large numbers Centre.
This function assesses the needs and designs of school leavers and university graduates, within and delivers necessary programmes for all fascias and Retail, Head Office and Distribution.
territories in order to ensure operational consistency along with developing the management skills required JDs global expansion offers its people infinite to effectively manage the business.
opportunities across its ever growing international territories.
A variety of interesting positions usually A Learning Management System LMS platform along exist across a number of departments such as: with e-learning and compliance based e-assessments Human Resources, Finance, Buying, Merchandising, are continually evolving to meet the ever demanding Property, IT, e-Commerce and Retail.
Within Retail alone there are a number of roles, Growing Our People in more than 900 stores across all territories, such The opportunities are extensive for those who spend as team members, store management and visual their careers with JD.
Examples abound within the group merchandisers, working together to present the of individuals who began their careers in store before product range to extremely high standards and either rising through the Retail ranks or pursuing other provide unparalleled service to customers.
careers within JD Sports Fashion Plc.
Recruiting Our People Equality and Diversity The Group continues to grow with over 100 new stores The Group is committed to promoting policies which are opening during the year and the expansion is long term, designed to ensure that employees and those who seek so there remains a substantial need for recruitment.
to work for the Group are treated equally regardless Whilst the Group is committed to getting the very best of gender, marital status, sexual orientation, age, race, from its people, it also strives to ensure that its recruits religion, ethnic or social origin or disability.
are of the highest standard.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to Dedicated recruitment personnel for our Head Office applications for employment by people who and Retail teams provide invaluable support in arranging are disabled, to continue whenever possible the interviews, scouring CV databases and advertising development of staff who become disabled and positions both internally and externally, ensuring that to provide equal opportunities for the career the most suitable candidates are sourced.
It is also Group policy to provide opportunities for the large number of people seeking flexible or part time hours.
58 Strategic Report Corporate and Social Responsibility continued A breakdown by gender of the number of employees Health and Safety who were Directors of the Company, Senior Managers We are fully committed to continuous health and and other employees as at 30 January 2016, is set safety improvement across all areas of the Group out below: and understand that it is the way we work and behave that protects our colleagues, customers and other stakeholders.
% % Male Female Total Male Female Our organisational structure defines individual safety Plc Board 4 1 5 80% 20% responsibilities and duties to ensure that we provide Senior Managers 108 42 150 72% 28% and maintain safe and healthy working conditions, equipment and systems of work for all our colleagues.
All Employees 10,336 9,497 19,833 52% 48% We demonstrate this commitment through active The breakdown for the comparative period, as at leadership, promoting best practice and by setting 31 January 2015, is set out below: specific and measurable targets each year.
Our performance against these targets is reviewed % % and reported upon regularly and we will ensure Male Female Total Male Female that adequate resource is provided to enable their Plc Board 4 - 4 100% - achievement and ensure the effective management of risk within the Group.
Our commitment is best Senior Managers 91 36 127 72% 28% evidenced by: All Employees 8,274 7,551 15,825 52% 48% The continued development of our induction and Senior Managers are defined as - training programmes that ensures every colleague has the competence, understanding and awareness 1. persons r esponsible for planning, directing to work safely and at minimum risk.
or controlling the activities of the Company, or Our Group health and safety committee meeting a strategically significant part of the Company, four times a year and our distribution health and other than Company Directors and: safety committee meeting monthly both ensure engagement with our colleagues.
Every employee 2. any other Directors of subsidiary undertakings has the opportunity to raise any safety concerns through their nominated representative.
Communication There has been continued safety input into all our The number and geographic dispersion of the new and refitted stores from the initial design Groups operating locations make it difficult, but through to opening.
Our health and safety team essential, to communicate effectively with employees.
conducts its own audit programmes to ensure the highest safety standards are maintained during the Communication with retail staff is primarily achieved construction phase of all our shop-fit projects.
through management in the regional and area We review the processes we have in place and aim operational structures.
In addition, formal to implement current best practice in all areas communications informing all employees of the of our business.
During the year we have reviewed financial performance of the Group are issued on and re-written our Group, retail and distribution a regular basis by the Groups Human Resources safety policies.
We have also implemented safety Department in the form of Team Briefs.
This improvement plans for our retail and distribution department also produces a booklet four times teams demonstrating that we are committed a year for distribution within the Groups Head to continuous improvement.
Office and Warehouse called People 1st.
We have implemented Group safety procedures across all UK companies with our focus on companies with warehousing and distribution activity.
59 59 Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate and Social Responsibility continued Our drive to implement Group safety procedures Environment across all JD retail stores in Europe continues.
The Group recognises that it has a responsibility Group procedures are now in place in Germany, to manage the impact that its businesses have on the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark and Sweden.
the environment and is committed to carrying out its Acknowledging that our main Distribution Centre activities with due consideration for the potential is our most hazardous environment, the safety and environmental impact both now and in the future.
operations teams have been working throughout We continue to comply with the UK Governments the year towards the achievement of a British carbon reduction commitment and have the following Safety Council Accreditation.
as the key areas of focus: We set ourselves a number of measurable targets for the year and have worked towards their Ensuring efficient use of energy and other materials.
achievement, including: Maximising the amount of waste which is recycled.
- Our area sales managers must carry out a health Ensuring compliance with relevant legislation and and safety inspection every six months in each codes of best practice.
Our target was that 95% of all stores must have a current inspection Energy in place.
At the end of the year the level of compliance was 95%.
Basic Principles - During the financial year, our target of zero The Groups core business is retail and it is the Groups Local Authority or Fire Authority enforcement aim to give customers an enjoyable retail experience notices to be served on the company has with goods presented attractively in an environment been achieved.
that is both well-lit and has a pleasant ambient temperature.
However, the Group accepts that all the businesses within it must be responsible in their energy usage and associated carbon emissions.
This policy applies in all territories.
Carbon Management Programme The Group maintains a Carbon Management Programme CMP which is sponsored by the Chief Financial Officer and is reviewed regularly.
The objectives of this programme are: Objective Action & Progress 1.
Understand the drivers and timing of usage by continued investment in energy smart meters.
This has now been achieved in over 545 of the Groups sites with ongoing rollout planned for remaining sites.
Combined with the stores where accurate and timely usage data is already received from mandatory half hourly meters, this means that in excess of 96% of the UK and Republic of Ireland electricity consumption and 75% of gas consumption is automatically measured every 30 minutes.
Reduce energy usage in non-trading periods.
In the period to 30 January 2016, the Group has invested in Building Management Systems in 180 of its highest energy consuming stores in the UK.
The project covers all fascias and is maintaining average energy savings of 20% and a payback in less than 12 months.
This technology is now fitted in all new stores as standard with further retrofits scheduled for 2016.
Reduce energy usage through investment in lighting technology.
Working with our preferred lighting suppliers, we have improved the design of the 23 Watt LED lamps, which are used as standard in all new shopfits, delivering an 11% improvement in power efficiency compared to the previous design.
Our standard retail lighting scheme also incorporates LED lamps in changing areas and individual motion sensors on every light fitting in non-retail areas.
Further, individual motion sensors have been fitted on lights in the Groups Head Office building in the year.
Reduce energy usage through staff awareness and training.
Retail staff have a key role to play in the execution of the CMP.
All new managers receive training in energy management as part of their wider training programme.
Purchase energy competitively from sustainable sources wherever possible.
The Group has placed new supply contracts in the UK except Northern Ireland.
The contract is to supply the Groups core businesses with 100% of its electricity requirement from either renewable or other sustainable sources.
Newly acquired businesses are migrated to these contracts when possible.
Ensure all business activities are aware of their impact on energy consumption.
A multi-disciplined approach to the CMP is adopted with considerable focus also given to reducing usage in the Groups warehouses and offices.
Ensure that the CMP applies to all businesses in all territories.
The CMP applies to all business in the Group.
We work closely with the local management after acquisition to identify gaps and implement group strategies.
Strategic Report Corporate and Social Responsibility continued KPIs Objectives For The Period To January 2017 The Group is committed to using and subsequently The Group is committed to investing in the necessary reporting on appropriate KPIs with regards to energy resources to help achieve its targets on reducing carbon usage.
Accordingly, the Group can report the following emissions, with the following works planned for the year which have been calculated based on the GHG Protocol to 28 January 2017: Corporate Standard using emissions factors from UK government conversion factor guidance for the year Continue to expand the reach of the CMP by working reported.
The emissions reported correspond with our with the newly acquired businesses.
financial year and reflect emissions from the leased and Retrofit further stores with the 23 Watt LEDs controlled assets for which the Group is responsible.
for retail lighting thereby further reducing energy Emissions are predominately from electricity use and consumption and heat gain in the retail environment.
delivery vehicle fuel consumption for our UK operations.
Further investment in the use of building Emissions from the Groups overseas operations are low management systems to allow remote relative to UK activities.
monitoring and control of building services.
Review energy usage and practices at the main warehouse in Kingsway, Rochdale.
2015 16 2014 15 2 2 Implement recommendations from the energy Tonnes CO Tonnes CO Global GHG emissions from: Equivalent Equivalent surveys carried out to exceed our Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS obligations.
Combustion of fuels & operation of facilities i 3,751 3,691 Purchased electricity, heat, stream & cooling 41,505 43,952 Interaction With Pentland Group Plc Under the current rules of the statutory Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency scheme Intensity measurement ii CRC, the Groups submission to the UK Environment Agency is aggregated with that of Pentland Group Plc Emissions reported above normalised to per m revenue 26 34 which is the Groups ultimate holding company see note 36.
The Group continues to work closely with Pentland Group Plc to ensure an efficient process with i Excludes facility F-Gas emissions regard to the emissions trading scheme which was ii Lik e for like revenues for businesses that have introduced in April 2010, as part of the CRC.
contributed full years both years Recycling The following businesses are excluded from the data Wherever possible, cardboard the major packaging above as their contribution is not considered material constituent is taken back to the Groups distribution at this time: centres.
The cardboard is then baled and passed to recycling businesses for reprocessing.
During the Kooga Rugby Limited year, the amount of cardboard recycled increased JD Sports Fashion Sweden AB to 1,638 tonnes 2015: 1,322 tonnes.
JD Sports Fashion Denmark ApS JD Sports Fashion SDN BHD The Group has expanded its use of the Dry Mixed Source Lab Limited Recycling DMR scheme to all pre-existing stores JD Sports Fashion SRL and businesses in the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands JD Sports Fashion Belgium BVBA to divert as much waste as possible away from landfill.
The scheme will be rolled out to other newly Whilst it is not mandatory, the Group remains committed acquired businesses as soon as this is possible.
In the to presenting data with regard to energy usage and period to 30 January 2016 we recycled 95% 2015: carbon footprint on a like for like basis in respect 92% of our DMR waste with the remainder being of those locations in the Groups core operations in the used as an energy-from-waste EfW material.
UK and Republic of Ireland that have been present for the full year in both years: Our Kingsway Distribution Facility continues to be a zero waste to landfill site.
% 2015 Change 2016 59,988 Energy Usage Electricity MWh 63,145 1,810 Energy Usage Natural Gas MWh 1,905 Total Energy Use MWh 61,798 65,050 2 Carbon Footprint Tonnes CO 28,059 29,536 -5% 61 61 61 Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate and Social Responsibility continued In addition to the DMR scheme, there are three other We have committed to continuing the arrangements main elements to our recycling strategy: with Mountain Rescue in England and Wales and Scottish Mountain Rescue for a further two years Confidential paper waste is shredded on collection on the same basis, being: by a recycling business.
This business provides a Certificate of Environmental Accomplishment Mountain Rescue in England and Wales: 50% of the which states that the shredded paper, which was income net of VAT from carrier bag charges levied collected in the year, was the equivalent of 3,808 in England and 100% of charges levied in Wales.
Scottish Mountain Rescue: 100% of the income net Photocopier and printer toners laser and ink are of VAT from carrier bag charges levied in Scotland.
collected and recycled for charity by Environmental Business Products Limited.
Human Rights Food waste is separated where possible and reused The Group endorses the principles set out in the United in the production of compost.
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisations Declaration on Plastic bags Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work which seek Approximately 35% of the bags issued by the Groups to ensure safe and fair working conditions on a global like for like businesses are high quality drawstring duffle scale.
Our suppliers are selected upon and contractually bags, which are generally reused by customers many committed to the Group on the basis of their adherence times.
However, the Group is aware of the environmental to these principles.
impact of plastic bags and has sought to minimise any impact through the following measures: Ethical Sourcing The Group seeks to provide its customers with high The bags are made from 33% recycled material.
quality and value merchandise from suppliers who can The bags contain an oxo-biodegradable additive, demonstrate compliance with internationally accepted which means that they degrade totally over core labour and ethical standards throughout their a relatively short life span.
These standards are based upon the provisions of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI Base The use of this material has also been adopted in an Code and specifically cover areas such as wages, additional 70% of the Groups plastic bags handed out working hours, health and safety and the right to to customers.
The Group uses paper-based bags rather freedom of association.
than plastic bags in its stores in the Republic of Ireland and we are also fully compliant with the carrier bag The Group requires all of its suppliers, both existing and charge schemes across the United Kingdom.
new, to formally commit to implementing the provisions of the ETI Base Code throughout their supply chains.
100% of the proceeds from the carrier bag charges Prior to any orders being placed, all new suppliers are net of VAT is passed to the JD Foundation for annual required to complete the Groups risk assessment form distribution as follows: to indicate their degree of compliance to the ETI Base Code.
All existing suppliers are also required to conduct England: 183,000 received from 1 October 2015 this assessment on an annual basis.
These forms are to 30 January 2016.
50% of the funds will be passed reviewed by the Groups Compliance team and any areas to Mountain Rescue in England and Wales with of concern with regard to potential non-compliance are 50% donated to other charitable causes in investigated when visiting the factories concerned.
accordance with the objects of the JD Foundation.
These reports are shared by the Group in a central base Wales: 89,000 received on a cumulative basis and those travelling are encouraged to take all from the inception of the charge to 30 January documentation from the base with them when 2016.
100% of these funds will be passed to visiting the factories so that follow up can be done Mountain Rescue in England and Wales.
Scotland: 78,000 received on a cumulative basis from the inception of the charge to 30 January 2016.
100% of these funds will be passed to Scottish Mountain Rescue.
Strategic Report Corporate and Social Responsibility continued This year has seen the Corporate Responsibility team Our Communities at JD Head office engage with the Fair Factories The Group seeks to be involved in the community Clearing House FFC compliance programme and where it can make an appropriate contribution from combined with the continued progression of the Asia its resources and skills base.
Inspections partnership we continue to work towards documented compliance in our suppliers and resolution During the year, JD set up the JD Foundation the of non-compliances within the core factory base.
registered charity number is pending.
In addition Our aim is zero tolerance on critical issues, with critical to the support given to Mountain Rescue in England issues defined as an issue that impacts workers causing and Wales and Scottish Mountain Rescue, the aim hardship or harm.
In 2015 16 we eradicated critical issues of the Foundation is to support charities working with from our existing supply base and we will continue to young people in the UK with the mission to give back do so as our supplier base expands.
Furthermore, to these youth communities.
issues categorised as major and minor issues were reduced by 53% year on year.
We have nominated four specific charities for funding in the new financial year: Over the past two years we have reduced our supply base by 50% as the Group further amalgamates its The Teenage Cancer Trust sourcing strategy.
62% of these factories have been The Factory Zone audited by a third party.
With the increase in auditing Once Upon A Smile we have enhanced visibility of issues in these factories The Retail Trust and are working with the FFC and the factories to track the resolution of these non-compliances to improve Funding for these donations will come from the conditions across all areas of the ETI base code.
remaining 50% of the carrier bag charges in England The FFC is invaluable in the monitoring of the progress together with the other fund raising activities of individual issues and sharing improvement undertaken by the Foundation.
responsibility with other brands sharing one factory, and it is expected that by joining the FFC we will A number of donations were made throughout the further develop our ethical compliance programme.
year, including 14,000 to Once Upon A Smile, 8,000 to Cancer Research UK and 4,000 to The Teenage Due to the diverse nature and scope of the supply Cancer Trust.
chain, it is not always possible to visit all of the factories directly.
Where instances of non-compliance are We also sent each child at a Special Needs school and identified from the risk assessment forms and or audits an orphanage in Coimbatore, India, a present box which and the supplier cannot be visited, they are required to was delivered to them on Christmas Eve, along with provide evidence of corrective action and subsequently a further four cartons of toys which were funded by re-graded against the initial report.
These actions will donations from within the Head Office.
be verified directly by the Groups Compliance team as soon as practically possible on a future visit.
All suppliers are contractually obliged to comply with the Groups Conditions of Supply which includes a specific policy on Employment Standards for Suppliers.
Brian Small Chief Financial Officer 13 April 2016 63 63 63 Strategic Report
