66 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 3.
People and Planet PEOPLE AND PLANET A REVIEW OF OUR PEOPLE, HEALTH AND SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE OUR SOCIAL GOALS COVER OUR OWN EMPLOYEES, OUR PLANET AND THE PEOPLE WHO SHARE IT WITH US.
HEALTH AND SAFETY IS A PRIORITY AS WE STRIVE TO ACHIEVE WORLD CLASS PERFORMANCE AND AS A BUSINESS, WE CONTINUE TO MAKE A MAJOR CONTRIBUTION TO SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT THROUGH THE EFFECTS OF OUR PRODUCTS AND THE WAY WE MANAGE OUR OPERATIONS.
We have a joined up approach employees have the opportunity to OUR PEOPLE AND to recruitment across roles in similar learn, grow and progress.
Our aim is COMMUNITIES professions increasing our success to have skilled, engaged and confident Identifying, attracting and retaining the in attracting the best candidates.
employees and a healthy pipeline of right talent is crucial to support the In 2016 17 we plan to develop a internal talent for leadership, technical future growth of Johnson Matthey.
We global induction programme which will and commercial roles for now and help our employees build their careers help everyone who joins us to quickly the future.
within the group, which keeps our understand the company, how we work During 2015 16, 687 internal voluntary staff turnover low.
and what we expect from our people.
appointments were made representing Over the last year, we have 30% of roles filled during the year and developed and launched our global 216 of these were moves between Developing, Supporting and people strategy.
This has given us a our businesses.
Rewarding Employees single framework which we are using to plan a sustainable workforce.
This will For us, the right approach to developing Talent Review our people is to provide challenging help to ensure that our people continue Through our new global people strategy to meet the needs of our business.
experiences alongside collaboration, we have introduced an updated talent coaching and mentoring opportunities, Heres how we are working to and succession review process for all develop our people worldwide, to meet as well as formal training.
Our talent review process development courses and leadership our current and future needs.
is an in depth review across all of our programmes stretch employees to learn divisions.
Twice a year, each division new skills, collaborate across divisions Attracting and Recruiting Talent discusses their strategic business and complete project work based on During the year we developed a suite objectives, talent implications, the roles real business challenges.
of recruitment materials that give a having the most significant business We work hard to recognise our consistent message to potential recruits impact and succession plans.
Once we around the world and at the same time, assess employees with the potential to have identified individuals with further offer the flexibility to be tailored to suit grow into more senior roles and work potential, we accelerate their development local audiences.
Next year we will with them to put personal development and help them realise their full potential focus on building our employer brand plans in place.
through career opportunities and further, ensuring that our profile in the We have started to roll this process training, including our manufacturing employment market reflects our out at a business level, cascading leadership, regional leadership, global standing in our sector.
This will help to it further across the organisation.
management and senior leader enhance our reputation as an employer This helps us to identify and plan our development programmes.
of choice and ensure our business and talent leadership pipeline for the future.
Over the next year we will be opportunities are presented in the same We support cross divisional career redefining our leadership strategy and way wherever we operate.
This will complement All of our recruitment activities are conducting senior talent reviews and Johnson Mattheys growth aspirations underpinned by our values and we by taking a pooled view of our talent and future skill requirements, and help seek out people who will reflect and across the group.
us continue to create a workplace where uphold them.
