66 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 3.
People and Planet PEOPLE AND PLANET A REVIEW OF OUR PEOPLE, HEALTH AND SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE OUR SOCIAL GOALS COVER OUR OWN EMPLOYEES, OUR PLANET AND THE PEOPLE WHO SHARE IT WITH US.
HEALTH AND SAFETY IS A PRIORITY AS WE STRIVE TO ACHIEVE WORLD CLASS PERFORMANCE AND AS A BUSINESS, WE CONTINUE TO MAKE A MAJOR CONTRIBUTION TO SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT THROUGH THE EFFECTS OF OUR PRODUCTS AND THE WAY WE MANAGE OUR OPERATIONS.
We have a joined up approach employees have the opportunity to OUR PEOPLE AND to recruitment across roles in similar learn, grow and progress.
Our aim is COMMUNITIES professions increasing our success to have skilled, engaged and confident Identifying, attracting and retaining the in attracting the best candidates.
employees and a healthy pipeline of right talent is crucial to support the In 2016 17 we plan to develop a internal talent for leadership, technical future growth of Johnson Matthey.
We global induction programme which will and commercial roles for now and help our employees build their careers help everyone who joins us to quickly the future.
within the group, which keeps our understand the company, how we work During 2015 16, 687 internal voluntary staff turnover low.
and what we expect from our people.
appointments were made representing Over the last year, we have 30% of roles filled during the year and developed and launched our global 216 of these were moves between Developing, Supporting and people strategy.
This has given us a our businesses.
Rewarding Employees single framework which we are using to plan a sustainable workforce.
This will For us, the right approach to developing Talent Review our people is to provide challenging help to ensure that our people continue Through our new global people strategy to meet the needs of our business.
experiences alongside collaboration, we have introduced an updated talent coaching and mentoring opportunities, Heres how we are working to and succession review process for all develop our people worldwide, to meet as well as formal training.
Our talent review process development courses and leadership our current and future needs.
is an in depth review across all of our programmes stretch employees to learn divisions.
Twice a year, each division new skills, collaborate across divisions Attracting and Recruiting Talent discusses their strategic business and complete project work based on During the year we developed a suite objectives, talent implications, the roles real business challenges.
of recruitment materials that give a having the most significant business We work hard to recognise our consistent message to potential recruits impact and succession plans.
Once we around the world and at the same time, assess employees with the potential to have identified individuals with further offer the flexibility to be tailored to suit grow into more senior roles and work potential, we accelerate their development local audiences.
Next year we will with them to put personal development and help them realise their full potential focus on building our employer brand plans in place.
through career opportunities and further, ensuring that our profile in the We have started to roll this process training, including our manufacturing employment market reflects our out at a business level, cascading leadership, regional leadership, global standing in our sector.
This will help to it further across the organisation.
management and senior leader enhance our reputation as an employer This helps us to identify and plan our development programmes.
of choice and ensure our business and talent leadership pipeline for the future.
Over the next year we will be opportunities are presented in the same We support cross divisional career redefining our leadership strategy and way wherever we operate.
This will complement All of our recruitment activities are conducting senior talent reviews and Johnson Mattheys growth aspirations underpinned by our values and we by taking a pooled view of our talent and future skill requirements, and help seek out people who will reflect and across the group.
us continue to create a workplace where uphold them.
67 OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES: PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 2016 2015 Average number of employees 12,494 12,148 1 Total employee turnover % 12.1 8.7 1 Voluntary employee turnover % 6.9 6.0 2 Employee gender female % 25 25 Gender of new recruits female % 28 30 Trade union representation % 24 28 Internal promotions % of all recruitment in year 30 33 Attendance days lost per employee 5.6 4.9 Charitable donations thousands 679 612 1 Employee turnover is calculated by reference to the total number of leavers during the year expressed as a percentage of the average number of people employed during the year.
The analysis does not include agency workers not directly employed by Johnson Matthey.
We also consider the talent needs Employee Mobility We are working towards a global of particular functions by conducting grading system.
We will continue to Our business is international and, reviews in manufacturing, finance and promote the importance of financial and increasingly, our people are too.
The commercial medical wellbeing among our workforce.
We understand that the quality of our function will be added next year.
Country In support of this, many of our people is a key source of competitive talent reviews are being held in China, businesses already make arrangements advantage.
We have programmes to India and the US, all of which are for employees to have access to flu encourage employee mobility across significant markets for us.
vaccinations, discounted rates at local our divisions and locations as we believe gyms, stress awareness training tailored it is an important element of peoples for managers and employees and other development, where appropriate for Leadership Framework wellness initiatives.
To guide our leaders at all levels, our leadership framework is aligned to our Share Ownership Schemes 3C Strategy.
It is a set of core behaviours Rewarding and Retaining and Pensions that are critical for leaders.
A cornerstone Our Talent of our talent strategy, it serves as a Our employee share ownership We continue to improve the way in practical tool in recruitment, performance schemes give staff a financial interest which we communicate about employee and development processes.
in the company and stimulate their benefits so that our people are clear This framework includes several performance.
Employees may about how their work is recognised and core competences, for example, participate in share ownership plans, rewarded.
We also benchmark our customer focus, building collaborative where practicable, through which they arrangements for market competitiveness.
can buy shares in Johnson Matthey We have identified these as critical which are matched by a company Remuneration and Benefits for our leaders.
Employees in the Our remuneration and benefit packages schemes are able to contribute to a are competitive and ensure that we can company share ownership plan or a Performance Reviews attract and retain the people we need.
401k approved savings investment plan This year we have introduced a consistent We benchmark our benefits in each a US tax approved scheme.
global process for performance reviews country where we operate, taking into Through these ownership plans, across the group.
This is currently used account cost considerations and adjust Johnson Mattheys current and former for management level staff.
They are and redesign our offering where needed.
employees collectively held 1.66% of the encouraged to think about their career This year we have continued to roll companys shares at 31st March 2016. aspirations and development with out our enhanced employee benefit Johnson Matthey also provides objectives set each year and reviewed communications to help employees various pension arrangements for its every six months.
These include understand our benefit programme and employees worldwide.
These are a business, personal development and to promote the idea of total rewards.
combination of defined benefit and safety objectives.
There is also a We have introduced a global pay policy, defined contribution pension plans, discussion about safety behaviours at started to introduce employee choice savings schemes and provident funds each review meeting.
This process will and flexibility into our benefit programmes which are designed to provide be rolled out more widely across the and the development of a global job retirement benefits, based on local group in 2016 17. classification system is ongoing.
system will help formalise career development pathways, making the skills and experience required for each level more transparent.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
