72 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 3.
People and Planet PEOPLE AND PLANET CONTINUED HEALTH AND SAFETY HEALTH AND SAFETY: PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 2016 2015 % change 1 Lost time injury and illness rate LTIIR 0.37 0.50 -26 2 Total recordable injury and illness rate TRIIR 0.85 1.13 -25 3 Incidents of occupational illness cases per 1,000 employees 0.90 1.03 -13 1 Restated to include accidents that occurred during 2014 15 but that were not declared as having resulted in lost time.
2 Restated for incidents reclassified after the year end.
3 Restated due to initial diagnosis being changed.
Occupational illnesses can have a long latency period and the diagnosis of two cases changed several months after the year end, resulting in the restatement.
We have adopted a maturity model Simultaneously, we have undertaken shown below to guide our health and significant work to embed these, and HEALTH AND SAFETY AT THE safety practices and behaviour.
The our lifesaving policies, across every site.
HEART OF OUR BUSINESS model defines five levels of maturity, from Over the last year, we have focused on emerging at level 1, through managing, Our Health and Safety Principles ensuring that everyone in the business is involving and cooperating, up to level 5 1.
All injuries and occupational engaged with health and safety and which is continually improving.
understands the critical role that each of illnesses are preventable.
The maturity model helps map our us plays.
The emphasis on encouraging course towards further improvements.
We are all responsible for preventing our people to make changes to their Through our work this year on developing injuries and occupational illness.
daily behaviours has already had a real personal responsibility for health and 3.
Adherence to lifesaving policies and impact across the group.
However, our safety amongst our staff worldwide, we site safety rules is mandatory.
progress was overshadowed by a fatality believe that we have moved up to level at one of our US sites during the year.
Working safely is a condition of three, from level two last year.
Committee leads the companys drive 5.
We will promote off the job health Embedding Health and Safety to improve our health and safety and safety for our employees.
performance and reviews progress This year we have invested in new projects and processes to support and Health and safety is also now part on a monthly basis.
These of annual and ongoing performance included an internal communications reviews for all employees.
During these Building and Embedding a campaign to launch our five health and reviews the focus is on behavioural, Health and Safety Culture safety principles which set out the and not just compliance or metrics Our focus in 2015 16 has been on raising companys position and expectations on based, safety objectives.
For example, employees awareness and bringing health and safety.
The global campaign all employees, including those based them on a journey towards a world class was translated into 13 languages for in offices, must demonstrate their health and safety culture.
Strengthening manager briefings to reinforce the knowledge of relevant behaviours, in commitment at an individual level is key five principles.
accordance with our Environment, Health to this.
We will only succeed when our and Safety EHS Behaviour Standard.
employees follow the rules because they want to, not because they have to.
Our Safety Culture Maturity Model Level 5 January 2016 Continually improving Level 4 January 2015 Cooperating Develop consistency Level 3 and fight complacency Involving Engage all staff to develop cooperation Level 2 and commitment to improving safety Managing Realise the importance of frontline staff Level 1 and develop personal responsibility Emerging Develop management commitment 73 Training and Knowledge Sharing Above all, we want people to understand in an effort to ensure that robust controls how the behavioural expectations set and management measures are in place Our first global conference for EHS staff out in our EHS Behaviour Standard to prevent incidents occurring elsewhere.
The relate to all safety incidents.
Business theme of this inaugural event was continuity training developed during the improving team communications and Lost Time Injuries and Illnesses year also includes a significant health sharing knowledge and best practice.
by Event Type and safety element.
Lifting and The first topic of the day explored handling Delivering EHS Excellence: learnings from incidents within the group 15% Learning to be Proactive is a training and how other teams could assess and 2 course which aims to reinforce the Other minimise risks to prevent accidents 34% message that no site is immune to happening at their own sites.
incidents and that all employees must Slip, trip The event saw a network of over 1 or fall take proactive steps to identify and 80 health and safety experts from 22% manage risks.
One outcome from 55 sites gather to hear from internal this course is the production and Struck and external speakers.
One initiative 1 implementation of local action plans to against Chemical taken forward was the launch of a Failure 7% support our health and safety culture.
related lessons learned area on our myJM to follow 13% procedure intranet where teams can share and 9% Safety Performance discuss incidents from within and 1 See page 190 for definitions.
outside Johnson Matthey, with the Our performance is summarised in 2 Sum of individual event types below 5%.
aim of increasing our own best practice the table on page 72 and two year and knowledge.
performance is shown in the two graphs below.
Our LTIIR improved by 26% during New Training Courses Lost Time Injuries and Illnesses the year, from 0.50 in 2014 15 to 0.37 Our EHS management system is by Region in 2015 16.
Over the same period, our supported by policies and guidance Rest of TRIIR also improved from 1.13 to 0.85, documents which serve as a framework World Asia a reduction of 25%.
4% for managing EHS matters at our 0% There were a total of 46 lost time facilities.
This year we have completed North accidents and illnesses across the group major updates to our corporate policies America during 2015 16. on protection of hearing at work, 29% Despite these improvements, in management of the hazard reviews July 2015, an employee working at our of capital projects and process risk Fine Chemicals Riverside site in the Europe safety management.
US tragically lost his life after a fall.
67% With an emphasis on knowledge Production activities at the site were sharing and communication, we have temporarily suspended and all work rolled out new training courses risk assessed.
Additional safety measures delivered by sector experts from DuPont.
were introduced and all employees were These are designed to actively engage retrained on fall protection and other employees with our policies and safe work requirements before the plant practices, encouraging them to make restarted.
Subsequently, 26 hazardous a personal and public commitment work audits were performed at our to demonstrate specific behaviours manufacturing facilities around the world more frequently and more effectively.
Lost Time Injury and Illness Rate Total Recordable Injury and Illness Rate per 200,000 working hours in a rolling year per 200,000 working hours in a rolling year 0.8 2.0 0.6 1.5 0.4 1.0 0.2 0.5 0 0 March March March March March March 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 74 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 3.
People and Planet PEOPLE AND PLANET CONTINUED HEALTH AND SAFETY CONTINUED Health Performance In 2015 16 we saw a similar implementation and effectiveness incidence rate of employee occupational of these key policies at each facility.
In line with our health and safety illnesses as in the prior year.
The incidence These assessments were completed principles, we have continued to focus reduced from 1.03 occupational illness at manufacturing sites selected on supporting employees health and cases per 1,000 employees in 2014 15 from all five divisions.
To date, the wellbeing both in and outside work.
This represents programme has identified a number Our global network of specialist a 13% improvement.
The overall number of improvements which are being occupational physicians have been of occupational illnesses is very low tracked and implemented.
involved in several projects during the and annual fluctuations are subject to We also launched a new group EHS year including investigation of suspected statistical variation.
assurance audit process with a global chemical exposures, biological testing approach, standardised processes and regimes and assessment of local closer alignment of the EHS audits with Contractor Health and Safety occupational health provision.
In 2015 16 are also responsible for delivering We are as concerned for the wellbeing our team audited 15 of our sites using our programme of education, training, of our contractors as we are for that of this methodology.
Since April 2016, counselling, prevention and risk our employees.
There was one reported the remit of this Audit process has control and any necessary treatment case of occupational illness affecting been expanded to incorporate the to our workers.
contractors working at our sites during key processes of the hazardous work 93% of our facilities around the the year.
audit to further enhance our regular world reported that they had complied Contractors include agency workers EHS assurance audit programme.
with the requirement to conduct an who are employed to cover long term annual sustainable health review and sickness absence and maternity leave, Product Stewardship improvement planning process in and to work on sites where we experience 2015 16, which was up on last year.
They Product stewardship means taking An increasing number of our sites are also include workers from outsourced responsibility for the product over its also BS OHSAS 18001 compliant, and functions such as cleaning.
whole lifecycle to reduce any adverse 25 have received certification that Our metric, LTIIR, is also applied impacts on the environment and they meet the minimum requirements to our contractor workforce.
for occupational health and safety our contractor 2015 16 LTIIR was 0.53 management best practice.
2014 15 0.48 representing a slight Committed to Responsible We use a health scorecard system increase.
We aim to reverse this trend and Management to rate the level of implementation of during 2016 17 will review and update The majority of products that leave our preventative programmes against our our contractor control policies and focus sites are only part way through their corporate standards.
This includes on communicating these more clearly.
They go on to become part of 14 key elements of health programmes another product or material which will be that align with our most significant Governance Processes used and then disposed of or recycled.
98% of sites completed and Auditing Irrespective of a products lifecycle their health scorecard review during the stage, the same principles of product year.
We saw an increase in the Each of our sites is subject to an audit stewardship are applied.
We are proportion of sites achieving A and B by our internal EHS team every 12 to 36 committed to responsible management levels of maturity and a corresponding months dependent on the scale of the of the chemicals we use and produce, reduction in sites reporting C and D premises and types of work carried out and have well established product grades.
Maturity levels reported in the there.
During the year 26 hazardous stewardship systems to ensure the areas of chemical exposure management, work audits were carried out across sound management of chemicals first aid provision and health surveillance the group, focusing on six key life throughout their lifecycle.
showed the most improvement, saving policies and assessing the reversing the decline seen in 2014 15.
Occupational Illness Cases Occupational Illnesses by Region Occupational Illnesses by Gender number rate Rest of of cases 1,000 employees World 30 3.0 Asia 8% Female 25 2.5 0% 33% 20 2.0 Europe 15 1.5 34% 10 1.0 5 0.5 0 0.0 North Male 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 America 67% 58% Occupational Rate per illness cases 1,000 employees Restated due to delayed diagnosis.
75 We follow the global framework In 2015 16, there were no Contributing To Industry Wide introduced by the Strategic Approach notifications of significant end user Guidelines to International Chemicals Management health effects involving our products We continue to contribute to industry SAICM to promote chemical safety and no major incidents or environmental wide efforts to develop state of the art around the world.
Our focus on releases during our product distribution guidelines on occupational hazard and sustainability also motivates us to apply were recorded.
No product recalls safety management information for green chemistry principles when selecting occurred for safety reasons.
Our platinum group metals and their materials.
Our products are not restricted Diagnostic Services business reported products via the International Platinum or banned in the markets in which they a small spill of Caesium-137 from a Group Metals Associations IPAs are offered and we openly respond to piece of equipment in a restricted use Platinum Group Metals Health Science stakeholder questions related to banned area at the University of Tulsa in the US Research Group HSRG voluntary or disputed products.
in 2014, which came to light in 2015 16. programmes.
By carrying out rigorous evaluations The business is cooperating with the During the year, this programme of our new and existing products, regulatory authorities in ongoing has delivered a number of important assessing any health and safety risks investigations of the matter.
outputs including robust and sensitive associated with product use and Following the recruitment of two methodologies for sampling workplace determining appropriate risk management product stewards to our central team air and completion and publication of measures, we can communicate vital last year, 2015 16 has been a year of results from phase one of the HSRG information to end users and others in embedding and consolidation.
Through funded epidemiology study on the supply chain.
Our procedures also this period, the team has continued to occupational chloroplatinate exposure capture information on component deliver strong toxicological and regulatory paradigms and risk of respiratory sourcing, when appropriate, and the compliance support to all five divisions, sensitisation allergy and asthma.
technical safety data sheets detail safe as well as a significant number of due The IPA member companies have use, disposal and substance content diligence projects.
In particular, we concluded that this new data supports information.
We work collaboratively have enhanced our regulatory horizon the adoption of a voluntary exposure with industry partners and customers, scanning capabilities through increased control target lower than the existing regulators and non-governmental participation in external e. g. trade regulated occupational exposure limits organisations to increase understanding association task forces.
We are committed of the lifecycle impacts of our products to developing the exposure monitoring and to maintain confidence in Johnson data using the methodologies mentioned New Product and Matthey as a responsible company.
previously to ascertain if our operations Technology Introductions Our businesses have management currently meet the lower voluntary target.
To strengthen and harmonise aspects systems in place to assess the impact of product stewardship further in our of products across their lifecycle.
business activities, we reported last Regulatory Matters year that we were developing a more Preparations to submit 145 lower Find more online about product formalised stage gate assessment tonnage substance registrations before stewardship at Johnson Matthey, for new product and technology May 2018 under the EU chemical including our policy on animal testing, introductions NPI.
The implementation management framework known as at www.
com sustainability of this process is ongoing and its launch REACH Registration, Evaluation, is expected to coincide with the rollout Authorisation and Restriction of of a harmonised NPI framework from Chemicals Regulation are well underway Product Stewardship Performance the Chief Technology Officers team and we are on track to meet the deadline.
We use a systematic product In addition, we continue to responsibility reporting scheme to monitor The product stewardship NPI update existing registrations with assessments will be an integral part the performance of our operations and new information, as appropriate, to maintain surveillance of the companys of this and will focus on three key respond to requests from the European characteristics: product safety, product products and services.
72% of our sites Chemicals Agency ECHA for new have met the requirement for ISO 9001, sustainability and regulatory compliance.
Deadlines related to Assessments will be iterative and demonstrating our commitment to hazard communication requirements reducing our environmental impact, designed to fit the stage of product safety data sheets and product development.
as well as reducing costs associated labelling, including the EU and US with waste management and improving implementations of the UN Globally productivity.
Harmonised System for Classification and Labelling were met by all impacted Johnson Matthey businesses.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
