24 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.
Overview BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS GROWING OUR BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE, ETHICAL AND SUSTAINABLE WAY AT JOHNSON MATTHEY WE MEASURE GOOD PERFORMANCE NOT ONLY BY FINANCIAL SUCCESS, BUT BY STRIVING TO BE THE MOST SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS THAT WE CAN BE.
Our vision is to build our 3rd century through value adding sustainable technologies and sustainability is a key element of the strategy we have in place to achieve this.
We believe that operating our business in this way is critical to our success.
In 2007 we launched our Sustainability 2017 Vision which set our direction and focused on operational, environmental and health and safety performance with specific targets.
We aim to double our underlying earnings per share while cutting carbon intensity by half, achieving zero waste to landfill and halving the key resources that we consume per unit of output by 2017.
We also aim to eliminate accidents and occupational illness cases.
We defined five elements that underpin our business: FIVE ELEMENTS OF OUR SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Social Environment Employee development and wellbeing, recruitment Responsible operations Supporting communities, safeguarding reputation Beneficial products Read more on pages 76 to 79.
CREATING VALUE Governance Well run business Health and Safety Transparent reporting Protecting employees, customers and communities Beneficial products Read more on pages 82 to 131.
Financial Must be profitable to be sustainable Sustainability initiatives can be cost efficient too Read more on pages 40 to 63 and 134 to 185.
Sustainability and Governance Framework We have established policies, processes Together, these provide the framework The Governance section on pages and management systems to support for managing social, environmental 86 to 97 describes the role of the board, our governance and sustainability efforts and ethical matters.
the GMC, the Audit Committee and which apply to all our operations around The Group Sustainability team other committees in managing our the world.
They cover: works closely with divisional business in the most sustainable way.
sustainability representatives, and other Business integrity and ethics: key corporate functions across a range Supply chain management: of issues.
Our Group Sustainability Director reports directly into the Group Environment, health and safety Management Committee GMC.
25 Our Progress Towards Sustainability 2017 We have made significant progress against the challenging targets that we set back in 2007.
They have been a real catalyst for change, focusing our attention on the issues that matter to our stakeholders and challenging our thinking about the way that we run our business.
We are proud of the improved health and safety performance, significant cumulative financial savings and reduced environmental footprint that we have achieved.
We will continue to focus on these targets up to the end of the Sustainability 2017 programme on 31st March 2017 when we will embark on our new programme, Sustainable Business 2025, which is outlined on page 27.
With one year remaining of our Sustainability 2017 programme, our progress to date against its targets is set out in the table below.
Sustainability 2017 Baseline % 1 Sustainability 2017 Target Key Performance Indicators 2007 2016 Target achieved 2 At least double Underlying earnings 82.2 178.7 164.4 earnings per share per share pence 117 3 Halve carbon intensity Global warming potential 294 151 147 tonnes CO eq million sales 97 3 Achieve zero waste to landfill Waste to landfill tonnes 16,555 1,953 0 88 3 Halve key resources per unit Electricity consumption 1,098 567 549 of output GJ million sales 97 3 Natural gas consumption 1,604 928 802 GJ million sales 84 3 Water consumption 1.426 0.820 0.713 3 m 000 million sales 85 4 Continual improvement in lost Number of lost workday cases 0.65 0.37 0.2 time injury and illness rate LTIIR per 200,000 hours worked in a 62 rolling year 5 Achieve zero occupational Annual incidence of occupational 4.2 0.90 0 illness cases illness cases per 1,000 employees 78 1 Data presented is for the period 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016.
2 Data presented is for the period 1st April 2006 to 31st March 2007.
3 Data presented is for the period 1st January 2006 to 31st December 2006.
4 Baseline is LTIIR for the period 1st April 2013 to 31st March 2014.
We have a target of 0.2 for our LTIIR and our aspiration is one of continual improvement towards zero LTIIR.
5 Baseline is incidence of occupational illness cases per 1,000 employees in calendar year 2008, restated.
Continued good progress towards our targets.
Supporting Sustainability Through Manufacturing Excellence and Continuous Improvement Underlying earnings per share EPS target was exceeded in 2013 14 and maintained in 2015 16.
Our Manufacturing Excellence programme is designed to enhance the efficiency and long term profitability of our Read more on pages 40 to 62. manufacturing operations, lower operating costs by reducing waste, drive investment in new technology and share the skills of our key manufacturing staff.
Remain on track to achieve carbon intensity and key In 2015 16, approximately 27 million of savings were resource reduction targets as a result of continued focus achieved as a result of our Sustainability 2017, Manufacturing on efficiency programmes across the group.
Divestment Excellence and continuous improvement programmes, bringing and acquisitions also contributed to progress.
the total saved to around 117 million since the launch of Read more on pages 76 to 78.
com sustainability  Lost time injury and illness rate reduced by continued groupwide focus on health and safety culture.
Further progress made in reducing occupational illness cases.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 26 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.
Overview BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Understanding Material Issues In this report, Johnson Matthey is The materiality assessment was These were reviewed collectively, informed by external engagement with presenting its non-financial disclosures under the guidance of an external in accordance with the internationally our stakeholders, including stakeholder consultant, to verify the average rankings surveys, investor meetings and customer recognised Global Reporting Initiative and group all indicators that ranked GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting discussions.
We participate in a number above medium importance on either of investor surveys such as FTSE4Good, Guidelines for the first time see scale, into themes.
Fundamental to this is an EIRIS, Vigeo, Carbon Disclosure Project sets out those current issues believed CDP, ETHIBEL and MSCI.
In addition, assessment of the issues which are to be most material.
We have grouped most important or material to the group.
during the year we completed these according to the five elements of sustainability questionnaires through Following the guidance set out our sustainable business: Health and under GRI G4, in 2015 16, a group of CDP supply chain and from EcoVadis Safety: Governance: Social: and Ecodesk.
We used the information subject matter experts from different Environment and Financial.
functions within Johnson Matthey collected through these to help us Further explanation can be found evaluate those issues that are most individually ranked 50 specific indicators throughout this report, wherever there according to importance to the group important to our stakeholders.
is the corresponding symbol from the and importance to stakeholders, based chart below.
There is also a full index on their own knowledge and interactions of these issues in the GRI G4 summary Read more on page 71. with key stakeholder groups.
We plan to expand our engagement Go online at www.
com process further in 2016 17, for example, sustainability governance stakeholders by drawing on information from a groupwide staff engagement survey which will help us to understand better the issues that matter most to our employees.
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 2015 16 Economic Performance Sustainable Supply Chains Health and Safety Greenhouse Gas Emissions Product Stewardship Environmental Impact of the Groups Products Climate Risks and Opportunities Ethical Business Practices Complaints and Legal Sanctions Water for Non-Compliance Consumption, Employee Recruitment, Recycling and Retention and Development Diversity and Inclusion Discharge Medium High Critical IMPORTANCE TO JOHNSON MATTHEY Health and Safety Governance Social Environment Financial IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Medium High Critical 27 Monitoring External Developments Sustainable Business 2025 In 2015 16 we continued to monitor specific external As we approach the end of our Sustainability 2017 developments in the global sustainable development agenda.
programme we are proud of our progress and recognise the We consider the four most relevant to Johnson Matthey to be: tremendous contribution that our employees have made.
Maintaining this momentum and further embedding 1 The UN COP-21 Climate Change Conference during sustainable business thinking across Johnson Matthey will which we supported the aim to implement a global binding be central to our future success.
We are now developing the agreement on limiting climate change.
As part of this, next phase of our sustainable business strategy, Sustainable we made a commitment to the Paris pledge for action.
Business 2025, and mapping our goals beyond 2017.
We are expanding our focus to incorporate more outward reaching www.
org targets with a basis in science and technology.
This new phase will be integrated with our 3C Strategy and will align 2 The launch of the UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs.
with our culture and values.
We are assessing our role in contributing to the UN SDGs In order to achieve our goals and understand our impact using the World Business Council for Sustainable on and benefits for our stakeholders, we aim to extend our Development SDG Compass tool.
These provide a sustainable business activities and our contribution to framework which will help us to understand how we sustainable development throughout the value chains in which can make a positive contribution through our operations, we operate to include strong collaborative partnerships with through the application of science and by employing our suppliers, employees, customers and other stakeholders.
sustainable technologies to solve global challenges.
org Read more about human rights on page 69.
3 The launch of the UK Modern Slavery Act which requires Johnson Matthey to make an annual public statement describing the steps that it is taking to ensure that there is Read more about no enslaved labour in its supply chains.
supply chains on page 69. www.
uk government collections modern-slavery-bill Read more about stakeholder 4 In February 2016 Johnson Matthey signed up to the engagement on pages 70 and 71. International Council of Chemical Associations Responsible Care Charter.
As a signatory to the six Go online: www.
com sustainability principles contained within it, we aspire to be a leader in our sector and show that we take these matters seriously as a responsible business.
Additionally, communicating these principles internally will help drive improved performance in our business.
org en Home Responsible-care We also participate in key benchmarking studies so that we can deepen our knowledge further in the area of sustainable business and compare our progress with leaders in the field.
During the year we gained valuable insights from the CDP, FTSE4Good, London Benchmarking Group and Business in the Community.
THE JOHNSON MATTHEY VALUE CHAIN JOHNSON MATTHEY Suppliers Customers Stakeholders Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
