68 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 3.
People and Planet PEOPLE AND PLANET CONTINUED OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED Attendance The high level of employee Governance and commitment and loyalty to the group Human Resources Good rates of attendance were continues to bring strength to our maintained this year.
The average As a global company, we maintain businesses.
Voluntary staff turnover number of days lost per employee in progressive HR standards backed by was low at 6.9% compared to many 2015 16 due to sickness and unplanned group policies.
We have sites located other organisations 2014 15 6.0%.
absence was 5.6 days, a slight increase in a number of countries which have The total employee turnover figure from 4.9 days in 2014 15.
This represents different legal frameworks and rose to 12.1% from 8.7% in 2014 15 2.2% of lost time per employee in the requirements.
Consequently, our HR mainly due to the restructuring of PT.
practices always meet local statutory The following table sets out the requirements and we often go beyond employee turnover in 2015 16 by them to recognise best practice.
Our Right Sizing in Difficult geographical region.
The employee global HR policies are applied across Market Conditions turnover figure is calculated by reference all our sites and are supplemented by Overall this year there was a slight to the total number of leavers during the local policies.
Site specific policies and increase in our global employee year expressed as a percentage of the procedures are explained at inductions numbers.
However, the number of average number of people employed and through staff handbooks.
We are employees in North America fell slightly, during the year.
The analysis does not working towards publishing our gender principally due to the sale of our Gold include agency workers not directly pay figures in 2018 as part of the UK and Silver Refining and Research employed by Johnson Matthey.
Chemicals businesses in March and In line with our Equal Opportunities September 2015.
A programme of Employee Turnover by Region Policy, we recruit, train and develop planned redundancies as a result of the 2015 16 employees who meet the requirements restructure of Process Technologies PT Voluntary of the job role regardless of gender, Total Employee employee also partly offset growth in our employee leavers turnover turnover ethnic origin, age, religion or belief, headcount for Europe.
We aim to marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy Europe 639 10.5% 5.1% support our employees during their or maternity, sexual orientation, gender North America 377 12.2% 7.3% redundancy transition with practical help Asia 348 16.2% 11.7% reassignment or disability.
People to find new roles which often includes a Rest of World 73 12.6% 5.5% with disabilities can often be denied mix of counselling and training in job a fair chance at work because of Total group 1,437 12.1% 6.9% search techniques, CV preparation and misconceptions about their capabilities, interview techniques.
and we seek to enhance the opportunities The following tables set out the available by attempting, wherever Trade Union Representation average number of people employed by possible, to overcome the obstacles.
Johnson Matthey and the net change in 24% of all employees worldwide This might mean modifying equipment, the number of people employed during 2014 15 28% belong to a recognised restructuring jobs or improving access 2015 16 by geographical region and by trade union.
We continue to maintain to premises, provided such action employment contract.
positive and constructive relations with does not compromise health and all the recognised trade unions that safety standards.
Average Number of People Employed This is set out in our policy, The following table sets out the average Average headcount 2015 16 which extends to employees who number and percentage of Johnson have become disabled during their Temporary Matthey employees who were covered Permanent contract employment and who will be offered by collective bargaining arrangements employees employees Total employment opportunities consistent and represented by trade unions by Europe 6,083 517 6,600 with their capabilities.
We would also geographical region in 2015 16.
North America 3,090 39 3,129 look to make reasonable adjustments During 2015 16 no working time Asia 2,143 39 2,182 for new recruits.
Rest of World 579 4 583 was lost within the group due to We embrace diversity and we see employee action.
Total group 11,895 599 12,494 it as a core component of a sustainable business.
Job applications are Trade Union Representation encouraged from all sections of the Annual Change in People Employed Average headcount 2015 16 community including minority groups.
Net change between average headcount As part of our governance, our Permanent % 2014 15 and 2015 16 Employees Represented represented HR policies and risks are examined by Temporary the Group Management Committee Europe 6,083 2,056 34% Permanent contract Total net North America 3,090 521 17% and the Group Policy and Compliance employees employees change Asia 2,143 73 3% Committee, with the board responsible Europe 226 -30 196 Rest of World 579 227 39% for overseeing the overall people strategy.
North America -188 1 -187 In addition the Nomination Committee Total group 11,895 2,877 24% Asia 327 -7 320 oversees talent and succession decisions Rest of World 13 4 17 and the Remuneration Committee deals Total group 378 -32 346 with remuneration policy.
69 Protecting Human Rights Manual which outlines requirements in performance within our own operations the areas of quality, health and safety, in respect of the UK Modern Slavery We support the principles defined within environmental management, labour Act.
However, business practices along the UN Universal Declaration of Human practices, business ethics and conflict the supply chain are not always Rights and the International Labour minerals.
More recently, we have transparent and we are investigating Organisation Core Conventions, including included an assessment on bribery further to ensure that there is no the conventions on child labour, forced and corruption risks.
enslaved, bonded or forced labour labour, non-discrimination, freedom of Since the introduction of the within them.
We will publish our first association and collective bargaining.
programme, all of ECTs strategic public statement in 2016 17.
We also support the principles suppliers have been audited except endorsed under the UN Global Compact for one rated as low risk, representing and the UN Guiding Principles on Go online: 1 74% of ECTs raw material spend.
Business and Human Rights the Ruggie www.
com sustainability In 2015 16 audits representing 25% of Principles.
At Johnson Matthey we are  policies the divisions spend on strategic raw working to embed these throughout materials were conducted.
From these, our operations and whenever we enter 85 corrective action plans, 70% of which into business in a new territory, make Our Culture and Values were in response to health and safety an acquisition or enter a joint venture.
For our performance to be world class, concerns, were subsequently put in There were no human rights living our values and building an place in partnership with suppliers.
grievance reports made against empowering internal culture is vital.
There was one instance where a Johnson Matthey during the year.
Our leaders set the standard for supplier could not provide evidence to everyone, actively demonstrating the show a minimum age for working on Sustainable Supply Chains actions, processes and outcomes site.
However, no evidence of child associated with our core values which Johnson Matthey procures goods and labour was found during our site visit are presented on page 21. services across the globe from a broad or review of labour records.
Our code of ethics, our progress in range of suppliers.
Our supply chains improving health and safety performance are multi-tiered and span a range of ECT Supply Chain Audit and our renewed commitment to sectors, such as the extractives precious Non-Conformances 2015 16 diversity are examples that demonstrate metals and base metals, agro crops for Labour how we are bringing our values to life.
active pharmaceutical ingredients APIs, practices industrial chemicals and ceramics.
Supply 6% Health and It is crucial to our business success chain Doing the Right Thing safety 9% that our supply chains are as sustainable 70% Doing the right thing is our code of Environmental as our own operations.
In 2014 15 we ethics which was launched in September management used an external consultancy to conduct and 2015.
It was shared with employees via a responsible sourcing review of our sustainability face to face meetings with managers, 15% four mature divisions policies and due giving our people the opportunity to ask diligence.
In 2015 16 we issued an questions, understand our standards and updated Group Ethical and Sustainable discuss ethical decision making.
Procurement Policy and began The code is available in multiple developing a Group Supplier Code of languages and contains information and Conduct which includes standards on No suppliers have been identified resources that help everyone in the environment, health and safety, human as using forced or compulsory labour.
group to carry out their duties safely, rights and ethical conduct.
All suppliers visited have confirmed ethically and legally while supporting our This will enable us to develop a that their employees are allowed to values.
It sets out individual, collective Group Supplier Sustainable Development join trades unions or works councils and the companys responsibilities as Programme SSDP in the future, building employee committees where unions we continue to grow in new territories on the leading work of our largest division, are not available.
During 2016 17 we will begin to Around the world, a network of ECTs SSDP was launched in 2013. deploy ECTs SSDP in other divisions, local ethics ambassadors are on hand This programme is targeted at suppliers and testing its adaptability to all issues to help their colleagues with guidance based on importance of material and present within the various supply chains and support.
The programme consists of two within Johnson Matthey.
elements, an initial self-assessment that During the year we continued to new suppliers complete and onsite improve audit processes with suppliers audits by trained Johnson Matthey staff.
across the group and assessed the Suppliers are visited at the beginning of implications of legislation such as the the relationship and then revisited at UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and least every three years.
Suppliers are European conflict minerals regulation.
audited against ECTs Global Supplier We are confident of our human rights 1 ECTs raw material spend excludes platinum group metals and substrates, which are the responsibility of the customer.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 70 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 3.
People and Planet PEOPLE AND PLANET CONTINUED OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED We provide focused training to those The Audit Committee is Engaging Our People employees whom we believe to be most responsible for reviewing the groups As a global company it is important that exposed to compliance risks in the course speak up procedures and the matters employees, wherever they are based, of their roles see below.
At its meeting in January 2016 connect with our 3C Strategy and vision.
no significant fines and non-monetary it reviewed all reports received up to When we engage our employees sanctions for non-compliance with laws that date during 2015 16.
We believe effectively, we see that they feel more and regulations during the year.
the increase in the number of reports involved in the company and share our received demonstrates the heightened commitment to achieving our goals.
understanding of our ethics and In turn, this leads to better performance, Competition Law Training by Region compliance programme and the employee retention and wellbeing.
number of employees awareness created by the roll out of our We empower our people by Rest of code of ethics and compliance training.
showing clearly how activities and World The new speak up case management 202 management decisions affect their Asia system also tracks and deals with 948 day to day work and how they can concerns raised through all internal contribute to the overall performance of channels, providing greater oversight the business.
Our culture encourages Europe of all concerns raised across the group.
employee feedback and we promote 3,340 On receipt of a speak up report, North two way communication.
During America it is reviewed and assessed under the 2016 17 we plan to carry out a global 1,650 oversight of an ethics panel which reports employee survey, reaching out to all annually to the Audit Committee.
When it employees for feedback and input.
is deemed appropriate to deal with a To further embed our 3C Strategy, report formally, an investigation will be Anti-Bribery and Corruption Training in June 2015 we launched the 3C conducted in accordance with our by Region Awards, designed to strengthen the link investigation principles of confidentiality, number of employees between reward and recognition, while impartiality and objectivity, capability and relating to our strategy and our business Rest of efficiency.
All investigations generate World priorities.
We received more than 300 recommendations and agreed actions 243 Asia entries which celebrated the best of the 1,063 that are tracked and followed through best.
The awards created excitement to closure.
among employees, encouraging friendly Europe competition and proved to be an 3,966 Diversity and Inclusion opportunity for everyone to get involved North and feel proud of their achievements.
America Johnson Matthey is committed to building 2,076 The programme will continue in 2016 17. a truly inclusive culture throughout the During the year we relaunched group.
In 2015 16 we created a cross both Assay, our employee magazine, divisional taskforce of representatives from and Spotlight, our bi-monthly employee around the world to focus on this area.
These are translated into We conducted a perception survey, to Encouraging People to Speak Up German and Chinese and aim to pulse check the views of our employees, Amongst other internal channels help our people achieve better results on the specific areas that we have available to employees who wish to raise and deliver our business strategy, identified where we feel we can make a concern is our speak up confidential by improving collaboration and an impact.
This understanding of the business and by In 2016 17 we will focus on training provides an opportunity to raise a concern supporting our culture and values.
senior leaders throughout the organisation anonymously where local law permits.
Our groupwide intranet and on diversity and inclusion, in particular There were a total of 53 speak up enterprise social network, myJM, focusing on how to avoid unintended bias.
reports during 2015 16 detailed in the was redesigned during 2015 16.
The The table below shows the gender table below.
The total number for enhanced system makes it easier for breakdown of the groups employees as 2014 15 was 26.
There were no speak people to find useful, relevant information at 31st March 2016. up labour practice grievance reports and to connect with internal experts.
made against Johnson Matthey during Our policies on equal opportunities the year.
and diversity are available on our Reports received Number of cases website www.
com Bribery and corruption 11 Discrimination or harassment 11 Gender Diversity Statistics Misconduct or inappropriate behaviour 9 As at 31st March 2016 Conflict of interest 6 Male Female % male % female Competition anti-trust 2 Business and financial reporting 3 Board 7 2 78% 22% Environment health and safety 2 Group Management Committee 8 2 80% 20% Confidential information and Subsidiary directors 115 17 87% 13% intellectual property 1 Senior managers 180 51 78% 22% Other or general enquiry 8 New recruits 1,173 460 72% 28% Total group 9,234 3,091 75% 25% Some individuals are included in more than one category.
71 Homepage content is tailored, giving community relations and believe that This two way exchange makes people the information most relevant to we have an important contribution to volunteering rewarding and valuable, them, quickly.
make to the economic development of for both our employees and the charity New tools such as Yammer, a social our local communities.
We are active or local group.
networking platform, make it easy to through collaboration and investment, We are a member of the London ask questions and collaborate about both financial and in kind.
Benchmarking Group LBG, a global particular topics and early adopters The communities where we operate network of companies that share and have already begun to see the benefits.
are significant partners for us and our promote best practice in corporate Additionally, new communication workforce includes a large number of community investment.
tools for initiatives such as our code of people from local areas.
We have a ethics and health and safety are available strong tradition of encouraging our Supporting Good Causes online in various languages to ensure employees to get involved with, and give Around the world, our people support they are accessible to all our employees.
By investing many charities locally and nationally, in this area we can: through personal donations, giving up Engaging with External realise our commitment as a their working time or through the loan Stakeholders responsible business that provides of company facilities.
value beyond our products: During 2015 16 the company To keep our stakeholders informed donated 679,000 to charitable and up to date with our activities, we make a positive impact in the organisations.
This figure has increased communicate with them across multiple communities in which we operate: by 11%, mainly due to new legislation channels on an ongoing basis.
Our build goodwill and enhance our in India which requires companies to regular publications including this report, reputation within our local donate 2% of net profit generated in the as well as our website, surveys and communities: and country to local good causes.
This figure meetings on specific topics, connect us increase our profile as an employer only includes the donations made by with external stakeholders see page 26. of choice.
It does not include During the year we participated in a payroll giving, donations made by staff number of trade associations including or employee time.
The company made the UK Chemical Industries Association, Go online: www.
com sustainability no political donations in the year.
the Diesel Technology Forum, the Society We operate a corporate charitable of Motor Manufacturers and Traders, donations programme which the Association for Emission Control represented 44% of the groups total by Catalyst, the Engineering Employers Community Investment Policy donations in 2015 16.
This programme Federation, the Pgm Health Science The main theme of our Community supports organisations in the areas of Research Group of the International Investment Policy is to support the future environment and sustainability, medical Platinum Group Metals Association growth of our business by encouraging and health, science and education, social at the International Precious Metals young people to study and succeed in welfare and economic development.
Institute in the US and Eurometaux, the education.
As a business reliant upon association servicing and representing the our expertise in chemistry and its European non-ferrous metals industry.
applications, our future depends on Charity Partnerships and In doing so, we can understand, inform the recruitment of excellent science Matched Funding and contribute to the topical issues and graduates.
We actively promote Our two year partnership with Cancer discussions that are relevant to our STEM subjects science, technology, Research UK concluded on 31st March stakeholders, as well as those of the engineering and maths in schools 2016.
During the partnership we donated broader industry and market sectors and universities.
more than 80,000, including a 30,000 in which we operate.
Our Community Investment corporate contribution.
Non-UK sites Our shareholders are an important Committee CIC represents our many were encouraged to support their stakeholder group for us and we meet locations and the different needs of national cancer charities.
Our new with major shareholders regularly, as their communities.
The aim of the CIC charity partner is Plan International described in the Corporate Governance is to deliver our community investment and we look forward to working closely Report on pages 96 and 97. strategy as part of our Sustainability with them in the coming year to support We know that a number of our 2017 Vision and to develop relationships their mission to alleviate child poverty.
investors are particularly interested in with our charity partners that go beyond In addition to our corporate ethical and socially responsible financial support.
The committee meets charitable donations, we also offer investments so we meet with specialists quarterly to update on progress and matched funding for employees from their organisation to discuss agree funding for projects.
89% of our fundraising efforts for registered sustainability and corporate social sites are actively involved with their local charities.
Matching is provided from responsibility CSR issues, and to communities and have either formal or central group funds up to 1,000 per provide the information they need.
informal engagement plans in place.
employee per year, subject to a cap of We also participate in key benchmarking We offer all employees two days 70,000 per annum for the group as a studies as discussed on page 27. paid leave per year for community or whole.
Over the last year, employees charity work, subject to the approval of raised 62,000 for 58 charities to their manager.
Employees are encouraged Working with Our Communities which the company added 52,500 to work with organisations in their local in matched contributions.
For us, sustainability is inclusive.
area where they can make most use We have a strong tradition of good of their skills or gain new knowledge.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
