strategic report GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION corporate responsibility Embedding good practice for commercial success Being a responsible business is integral to the way we work Our priorities are our marketplace, workplace, the environment and community.
Marketplace protecting our clients interests Our corporate values set out our aim of making a positive contribution to society, as managers of other peoples money.
As part of this, we look to exercise good stewardship on behalf of our clients, to support their investment ambitions and to behave ethically.
We believe that our biggest sustainability impact comes from looking after our clients needs and our engagement with the companies we invest in.
The regulatory environment reinforces our approach.
As our business is mainly in the UK, our primary regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
It oversees all aspects of our work, from how we run our fund management operations to our client communications.
While we also come within the jurisdiction of other regulators overseas, the high standard of UK regulation means that the FCA sets the benchmark for what we do.
When we face overseas regulations that are more onerous than in the UK, we comply with the higher standard.
our clients Jupiter can only succeed by offering products that our clients want and that meet their investment needs: by selling and marketing these products responsibly: and by offering high levels of client service.
Ensuring we meet the needs of our clients comes from a combination of our culture and our governance.
Our policies, principles, codes of conduct and our corporate values all inform our culture and align our interests with those of existing and potential clients and our staff.
Our key policies relating to our clients include: l Treating customers fairly TCF.
TCF is a core FCA principle, which promotes fair treatment of clients from product inception through to marketing and post-sales support.
Our TCF policy commits us to dealing with clients honestly, openly and competently, not just as part of regulatory compliance but as a fundamental guiding principle.
Our TCF Committee, chaired by our Chief Executive Maarten Slendebroek, ensures that our services meet our TCF obligations and our policy.
This policy sets out potential material conflicts that we have identified, together with procedures and arrangements to prevent these from creating a material risk of damage to our clients interests.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 CORpORATE RESpONSIBILITy iMpleMenting our policies Jupiter is a signatory to the Code.
During the year, the FRC conducted a review of asset management signatories to the Code We have a number of methods for ensuring we successfully based on the quality of their Code statements.
Tiering distinguishes implement our policies.
These include: between signatories who report well and display their commitment l training programmes, covering areas such as anti-bribery to stewardship, and those where reporting improvements are and corruption, money laundering and market abuse, which necessary.
In November 2016, after participating in discussions with employees are required to complete during the year: asset managers including Jupiter, the FRC announced that Jupiter is included in Tier 1, indicating that we provide a good quality and l our employee handbook, which provides assistance with transparent description of our approach to stewardship and contractual terms, expected conduct and our policies: explanations of an alternative approach where necessary.
l our intranet, through which we make our key policies available The Chief Investment Officer also chairs our Sustainability Review to our people: Committee, which comprises portfolio managers and sustainability l internal audits, which review our compliance with our legal and governance specialists.
The Committee oversees the approval and regulatory obligations, as well as our own rules: of companies for investment in ethically screened, socially responsible or environmental solutions funds.
It also reviews our l supervisory controls, including a TCF sponsor in every engagement with companies on social and environmental issues client-facing department: and and monitors these risks and opportunities across our funds.
l our governance framework, including our Board, management We have a process to link this analysis of major social and and reporting committees with their own terms of reference, environmental issues to our key holdings.
Our approach is that which provide us with a robust structure within which we sustainability specialists and investment teams conduct sustainability implement our governance and policies.
Our Compliance department monitors our success with One area we continue to research and engage in is the issue of implementing our policies, principles and codes of conduct.
In 2016, we analysed the financial impact We review the majority of our policies annually and circulate of changing fossil fuel supply and demand trends, with a focus on the updated versions to all staff.
how fossil fuel companies are adapting their strategies as a result.
We also worked across investment teams to monitor renewable conduct risk technology cost and policy trends.
Conduct risk considers a firms culture and values, how these During the year, the UN-backed principles for Responsible influence its behaviour and the extent to which it prioritises client Investment pRI released its Transparency Report for 2016, in which outcomes.
The purpose is to ensure that firms do not put their own it assessed Jupiters wider approach to the pRIs six responsible interests ahead of their clients interests.
Conduct risk therefore investment principles.
Jupiter once again scored strongly across a covers many aspects of the way we operate, ranging from the number of modules assessed by the pRI.
In particular, we received culture set by the Board, to designing products appropriate A scores for the Strategy and Governance, Listed Equityfor clients and to the way that employees are remunerated incorporation and Listed Equity-Active Ownership modules.
our stewardship perforMance During 2016, we built upon the conduct risk foundation put in place the previous year: all staff now understand the importance We monitor the companies we invest in by hosting or attending of positive conduct to our business, our clients and distribution regular meetings with their executive management.
In addition, the enterprise-wide approach to conduct risk allow us to question and challenge companies about the issues we is currently being embedded into 2017 Business Risk Assessments, to think may affect their long-term value.
deliver a bottom-up view of conduct risk across the business.
These We also separately engage with company chairmen and nonwill ensure we strengthen and enhance operational level controls to executive directors.
The content of these meetings vary but can mitigate potential conduct risks where identified.
include strategy, board effectiveness, remuneration, shareholder rights, culture, values, succession planning and sustainability.
This our approach to stewardship engagement gives us a different perspective on a companys Effective stewardship is fundamental to achieving the best riskperformance and prospects and is a real source of insight, helping adjusted returns for our clients.
Our investment teams and specialist us to drive long-term investment performance.
Our approach governance and sustainability analysts work together, to integrate means we build relationships and look to engage before problems stewardship into our investment approach.
All our fund managers arise, rather than holding companies to account after the event.
are actively involved in voting decisions and our governance During the year, we engaged with 106 companies to primarily dialogue with companies, in partnership with our Governance discuss stewardship matters.
These meetings were conducted in Research team and our sustainability specialists.
We do not view addition to the 1,000 meetings held with company management governance themes in isolation but seek to understand how they around the financial calendar.
Voting at company general meetings is also an important part of Jupiter has a formal Stewardship Committee.
The Committee aims to exercising our stewardship responsibilities.
In 2016, we voted at 1,275 develop and deliver a co-ordinated approach to our engagement meetings.
Of these, 366 were in the UK and 909 were overseas.
The Chief Investment Officer chairs the Committee, voted against management or abstained on at least one resolution which comprises fund managers, the Head of Governance, at 15% of UK meetings and 32% of overseas meetings.
corporate governance and sustainability analysts and As part of our approach to stewardship and responsible investment, representatives from across the business.
The Committee looks at we review key themes that could affect the long-term value of trends in our engagement with companies, the issues that are companies.
In 2016, for example, we considered: arising and how we can enhance our processes and information gathering.
It also approves our submissions to consultations, for l the risk and opportunities for investors in the auto sector, at a time example on changes to the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK of unprecedented technological change: Stewardship Code the Code.
l the global rise of eCommerce penetration: and l the approach of UK companies to living wage requirements and zero hour contracts.
32 Jupiter Fund Management plc strategic report GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION More inforMation on stewardship In response to our Employee Opinion Survey feedback, we provided Career planning Food for Thought lunches.
In the third quarter, For a more detailed understanding of our stewardship activities, we launched Jupiters Sales Academy.
This initiative aims to drive please visit www.
com to view monthly records and increased productivity across the sales force.
Focusing initially on download our latest Voting and Engagement Report.
the sales executive population, both in the UK and internationally, Further information on our approach to corporate governance, the pilot will encompass six modules over a six month period.
corporate responsibility and voting can be found in the Jupiter Asset We maintain a robust risk and compliance culture.
Our Compliance Management Corporate Governance and Voting policy and The UK departments monitoring programme ensures we adhere to Stewardship Code: Jupiters Approach, both of which are available regulatory controls.
With the increased regulation facing our on our website.
industry, we have training and communication programmes to ensure awareness and compliance with regulatory changes such workplace attracting and retaining top as MiFID II, UCITS V and the Senior Managers Regime, and the talent embedding of our Enterprise Risk Management framework.
The As a people business, we depend on the skills and experience of training also covers areas such as anti-bribery and corruption, our people.
More information on our approach to managing our money laundering and market abuse and cyber security, which people can be found in the Our Strategic performance section.
most employees receive during the year.
All new members of the leadership team are given a full, formal diversity and inclusion and tailored induction to the business, including meetings with other To us, diversity and inclusion means having the right people, senior management and advisers.
In the case of new Directors, regardless of background, in the right roles.
Diversity is the mix: the Chairman, working with the Company Secretary, ensures that inclusion is getting the mix to work well together.
The differences training programmes are provided either directly or by the between individuals are valuable, as they promote different Company through legal and regulatory updates.
Non-Executive viewpoints and ways of thinking, helping us to innovate and make Directors also have access to external programmes.
Jupiter expects better decisions for our clients.
We are committed to increasing Directors to identify their own training needs and to ensure they diversity within Jupiter and to promoting mutual understanding are adequately informed about Jupiters business and their between our employees.
We back this up with a zero-tolerance responsibilities as a Director.
The Chairman regularly reviews policy to bullying or harassment, as respect and tolerance are and agrees training and development needs with each Director.
important to our high-performance culture.
huMan rights and Modern slavery Diversity and inclusion remained an important focus for us during the year.
Appointments to the Board and to our Executive and We recognise the importance of upholding human rights in our Management Committees in 2016 have improved the diversity business operations, both in how we as an organisation treat balance at the highest level of the firm.
We recognise that women individuals and how we encourage individuals within the Group to remain under-represented in the investment management team.
This is at the heart of our corporate values.
This is an issue across the industry and we see developing our own We protect the rights of our employees through our employment female talent as the most effective solution.
We have also signed up policies and practices, which prohibit discrimination and encourage to HM Treasurys Women in Finance Charter, which is a commitment diversity.
We protect the rights of our other stakeholders through our to supporting gender diversity.
Further details of our goals can be insistence on high standards of ethical behaviour.
This is embedded found on our website at: www.
com en Jupiter-Fundin our culture through our policies, principles, codes of conduct and Management-plc.
The table below analyses our employees by gender: We expect our suppliers to uphold human rights both in their own organisations and, in turn, in those of their suppliers.
In particular, at 31 december 2016 2015 we will not tolerate modern slavery or human trafficking.
female Male female Male Board 5 56% 4 44% 4 40% 6 60% Further details can be found on our website at: www.
Senior managers 9 12% 63 88% 10 15% 57 85% Other employees 169 44% 218 56% 149 43% 196 57% Measuring our environMental iMpact Total 183 39% 285 61% 163 39% 259 61% In 2011, we began working with Carbon Credentials to measure our carbon footprint.
Since then, we have gathered data on a variety of training and development emissions sources.
The table below presents the operational We invest in our people through skills training, mentoring and boundary for our reported GHG emissions in 2016: coaching.
Direct emissions Building gas Fugitive emissions Owned performance management is a key part of our high-performance scope 1 combustion from refrigeration vehicles culture.
All our employees take part in six-monthly reviews, where and air we seek their feedback and assess their performance against conditioning objectives and behaviour, in line with our Corporate Values.
equipment Together with individuals, we then develop an individual training Indirect emissions Building and development plan.
scope 2 electricity Our structured learning and development curriculum caters for consumption everyone across the organisation, from support staff to senior Other relevant Business travel Waste disposal Water managers, and covers the key types of training necessary for each indirect emissions consumption role.
We offer both technical and softer skills, such as leadership and scope 3 presentation skills.
The curriculum is now in its second full year.
Over 60% of staff have attended internal training courses and more than 90% of those would recommend the courses to colleagues.
In 2016, we launched our people Manager workshops, to enhance the skills of all people managers throughout the firm.
We are monitoring attendees ongoing managerial capability.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33 CORpORATE RESpONSIBILITy our environMental perforMance coMMunity supporting charitable giving The table below breaks down our GHG emissions by scope.
We The difference we make in the community is primarily through use the operational control approach to consolidating GHG charitable giving, which we believe is best directed by our emissions.
Our chosen GHG methodology Defras Environmental employees.
Reporting Guidelines defines this as operations where we, or one This was the second year of working with our partner charity, the of our subsidiaries, have full authority to introduce and implement Alzheimers Society, which was selected by our charity committee at our operating policies.
We believe this approach incorporates all the start of 2015.
During the two years of our relationship, we have of our entities with sustainability impacts that are actually or raised around 40,000 for the Alzheimers Society.
This has come potentially material.
from direct corporate donations and from fundraising events which At the end of 2016, Jupiter had physical operations in nine countries.
engaged our employees, including a bake off, a quiz night, a staff However, we have estimated that the actual or potential sustainability versus clients football match and a Beat the Boss bikeathon.
impacts of our non-UK offices are immaterial.
We have therefore Towards the end of the year, we began the process of selecting our applied a materiality threshold of 5% for the purposes of reporting next partner charity, based on nominations from employees.
Our GHG data, in line with practice among similar sized firms in our sector.
aim in selecting a partner charity is to choose an organisation change whose work aligns with Jupiters corporate values and Teach First key performance indicator 2016 2015 % has been chosen as our next partner charity.
Teach First are a Direct emissions scope 1 230.0 tCO e 182.4 tCO e 26 2 2 charity focused on improving inequality in education primarily through training and supporting new teachers to develop as leaders Indirect emissions scope 1,186.4 tCO e 228.7 tCO e 419 2 2 in schools.
2 : In addition to the Alzheimers Society, we supported a number of location based other charitable causes during 2016, including the Jeans for Genes Indirect emissions scope 0.5 tCO e 238.4 tCO e 100 2 2 Day and raising money for brain tumour research.
2 : market based Other relevant indirect 358.1 tCO e 277.3 tCO e 29 2 2 emissions scope 3 charlotte Jones Chief Financial Offficer Note: natural gas and electricity consumption was estimated for the 23 February 2017 first quarter of 2016, due to delays in commissioning the meters at the Zig Zag building.
Natural gas consumption for 2015 was estimated, due to issues with data availability.
Scope 1 emissions increased by 26% in 2016, as a result of a rise of 33% in emissions from natural gas consumption.
The growth in scope 2 location-based emissions of 419% is the result of greater electricity consumption.
Both these increases are the consequence of our move to the Zig Zag building.
Despite the buildings sustainable design and fit-out, it has a 17% larger floor area than our previous office and improved comfort levels for our employees, with high internal air quality, dedicated resilient cooling facilities, LED lighting and a 24 7 critical cooling system.
All our employees also now have double screens on their desks.
We will be engaging with our landlord in 2017 to better understand our energy performance, using sub-meter data, so we can target emissions reductions opportunities.
However, it is important to note that our new office electricity supply is 100% renewable.
Under the market-based approach to scope 2 emissions reporting, our electricity emissions are only 0.5tCO2 for 2016.
On this basis, our total scope 1 and 2 emissions are 45% lower than in 2015.
Our emissions intensity measure is tCO2e per full time employee equivalent FTE.
Using direct emissions scope 1 and location-based scope 2 emissions, our emissions intensity in 2016 was 2.99 tCO2e per employee FTE 2015: 0.91 tCO2e per employee FTE.
Using direct emissions scope 1 and market-based scope 2 emissions, our 2016 emissions intensity fell to 0.49 tCO2e per employee FTE 2015: 1.04 tCO2e per employee FTE.
Scope 3 emissions are almost entirely made up of emissions from air travel, which increased by 29% during 2016.
