Code of Business Conduct Sustainability Our ways of working Keller is known and respected Keeping everyone healthy for its high standards of and safe honesty, fairness and integrity We believe no one should be in our relations with employees, harmed as a result of any customers, suppliers, competitors work we do so everyone and the community.
In 2012, we set out our high Supporting employees standards and guidance on how rights and diversity we work in a simple Keller Code We value, support and of Business Conduct.
Since that protect the rights and dignity time, we have grown from 6,000 of the individual and the employees to over 10,000 diversity of our people so employees and, because ethics we are all treated with respect.
and integrity are so important, in 2016 we refreshed the Code and Maintaining ethical launched online and face to face and honest behaviour As the largest geotechnical engineering company training across our businesses.
We are always honest, act Our new Code of Business in the world, we have always seen our corporate social with integrity and comply Conduct sets out: responsibilities as an important part of our business model.
with the law so everyone trusts us.
During the year, we adopted a refreshed Code of Business Clear and common standards Conduct setting out clear and common standards of of behaviour that make it Staying free from bribery clear whats expected by behaviour expected from all our employees along with and corruption everyone who works in and those we do business with, and we also agreed a new We always make sure we with Keller are free from bribery and Sustainability framework, based on the United Nations corruption so people know Global Goals for Sustainable Development SDGs that will A framework to guide our decisions are made for decision-making when assist us in developing our business and reporting on our the right reasons.
situations arent clear-cut progress in the right way.
Keeping our communications A positive culture that keeps open and responsible Leadership and oversight us successful and ensures we We communicate openly, The Boards role is to provide operate in a way we can all be honestly, clearly and effective leadership, establish proud of responsibly.
overall policy for the group and monitor the performance of the A public statement of our Delivering excellent operating companies in relation to commitment to high customer service and our values and ways of working.
standards that tells others working with our suppliers The Chief Executive is ultimately they can rely on our integrity.
to ensure our standards accountable for the group are adhered to operating in a way that is accords To support the Code, we agreed We work to meet our with our values and ways of ten group policies to be used customers needs and working.
During the year, the internally and externally covering: exceed their expectations Board approved the groups so they work with us again refreshed Code of Business Health, Safety and Well-being and again.
We ensure we build Conduct and new Sustainability Sustainability constructive relationships framework.
The Executive Human Resources with our suppliers and they Committee, chaired by the Chief Competition Compliance understand our ways of Executive, has responsibility for the Procurement working and the standards oversight of their implementation.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Fraud: we operate by.
Share Dealing Our line managers are charged Information Management Working within the with: providing leadership within Quality & Continuous community their companies, delivering Improvement We act responsibly and performance safely and with Whistleblowing.
respectfully towards the integrity: and supporting our communities we work in group policies.
Our line The Code of Business Conduct because we are a part managers are supported by and our ten group policies can be of them.
a network of Ethics and found on our group website at: Compliance Officers ECOs www.
com how-we-do-it Protecting our environment who sit in each of the business .
aspx We respect and protect the units and have an independent environment, and minimise reporting line into the three our impact on it so we Divisional ECOs.
The group ECO safeguard the future.
has oversight of the network and an independent reporting Standing up for whats right line to the Chairman of the We always speak up when we Audit Committee.
believe our ways of working are being undermined so All employees are responsible we uphold our ways of for following our group policies working together.
with the support, direction and commitment of line management.
36 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements However, despite our efforts and progress we had two tragic events during 2016, the death of an employee in Texas, USA, and the death of a sub-contractor in Slovakia.
Those fatalities continue to be investigated by Good health the local regulators.
We are and well-being committed to reducing fatalities We are four years into our to zero and we take any loss of five-year strategy, Think Safe, life very seriously.
As we await to improve the health, safety the formal outcomes of the and well-being of our people.
investigations, we have taken a We identified those hazards number of measures to ensure which were most important that we learn from those events both in terms of probability of and implement any necessary occurrence and consequence, changes to our procedures as assessed the best way to a result.
mitigate those hazards and Keller supports the United Nations Sustainable set out to change the health Dedicated awareness Development Goals SDGs and in December 2016, and safety culture of our campaigns and new engineering management put forward a proposal as to how we organisation.
Our goal was to and operations controls have would contribute to achieving the SDGs which was move from a compliance based contributed to a positive approach to one that was both reduction in accidents across approved by the Health, Safety, Environment and motivating and sustainable.
a number of key areas for focus Quality Committee.
for our business: the number Since its introduction in 2013, of hand injuries amongst our Think Safe has helped to reduce people reduced in 2016 to 300 accidents in our business by 2015: 377 : incidents and or approximately 44% see below.
injuries requiring an employee to Our systematic approach to take one or more days off work behavioural change has improved reduced to 73 2015: 82 and our performance in the medium high risk incidents reduced to term and will achieve the cultural three 2015: six.
changes we are seeking in the longer term.
Benchmarking During 2016, we benchmarked Figure 1 our safety performance, using the most commonly used and Keller Group AFR by year per 100,000 hours worked reported metric, lost time injury, against our competitors 2016 and our key customers to better 2015 We have chosen to focus on Over time, we will extend our understand our performance in 2014 those SDGs that are of current focus to additional Goals where the market.
Our performance as 2013 material significance to our we can make a difference.
a group compares favourably 2012 operations and will be reporting and, as illustrated below, is 0 0.25 0.5 0.75 1.0 1.25 1.5 1.75 2.0 annually on our progress against On the next few pages we set out around 50% better than that each of these: why these SDGs are important of the UK construction and for our business and the steps specialist construction sectors.
Good health and well-being we are taking to make progress Quality education towards their attainment.
Comparative AFR 2015 16 Gender equality Comparative Decent work and per economic growth 100,000hours Climate change Metric Country Keller worked Life on land UK construction sector United Kingdom 0.34 0.86 UK specialist construction United Kingdom 0.34 0.96 US Bureau of Labor North America 0.34 0.75 German Construction Industry Germany 0.34 3.53 Keller Group plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Sustainability continued Quality education Keller actively supports the education of its people in a variety of ways.
In addition to safety, technical and competency-based training, graduate and management training programmes operate at a group and at a Divisional level.
All three Divisions are focused on improving the skills and Kellers lean management competencies of employees programme and have developed a number of We believe that there is a strong bespoke training programmes correlation between good lean for employees: as a group, we management processes and are constantly looking at how improved business safety, we share these leading best effectiveness and efficiency.
practices across all of our In 2016, we piloted a quality businesses.
Our goal is to improvement programme combine the individual career focused on enabling our people aspirations of our employees to create well-ordered sites with our business needs, and yards.
ultimately ensuring knowledge is transferred and retained in We will continue to implement the business as well as training the programme more widely our future leaders our talent across the business in 2017 pipeline.
and progress will be overseen by the Boards Health, Safety and Environment Committee, which has expanded its terms of reference to monitor managements deliver of quality and continuous improvement performance.
Case study 2016 Safety Successes: Caspian Sea region From 2015, we have been installing piles at our major project in the Caspian Sea region.
Each pile requires five separate crane lifts from its delivery on-site to installation.
In 2016, a total of 64,225 crane lifts were carried out and 12,845 piles installed safely and successfully, with no lost time incidents.
To date, the team has achieved 500,000 man hours without a lost time incident.
38 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our total footprint for the year Third-party assurance 2016 increased by 2% which is substantially in line with the statement like-for-like revenue increase Keller Group plc appointed for the group for the year.
Carbon Credentials to Kellers carbon intensity value provide independent fell by 10%, which is largely verification against the ISO Climate action explained by foreign exchange 14064-3 standard on the During 2016, the business movements increasing Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG undertook a review of our revenues on prior year.
energy use on a sample of Their summary opinion is projects across the world.
Our carbon emissions are linked, provided below full opinion Much of our carbon emissions to a degree, to the customers and recommendations are come from the fuels we use in demand and choice of product available on request : our equipment and from the and solution.
materials we use in our solutions.
B ased on the data and We are developing, and market, information provided by Based on initial findings, we will a number of lower carbon Keller and the processes set a 2017 carbon reduction products for our customers.
and procedures conducted, target, aligned to the need to Carbon Credentials keep global temperature We are able to measure the concludes with limited increase below 2C compared embodied carbon in our assurance there is no to pre-industrial temperatures.
products through our carbon evidence that the GHG calculator, enabling us to assertion: We have already adopted the demonstrate to our customers Gender equality international carbon disclosure the true carbon differences Is not materially correct: We promote working together programme CDP which is between solutions and giving Is not a fair representation to create an environment where aligned with the Global Reporting them the information to make of the GHG emissions data everyone at Keller has equal Initiative GRI.
During the 2015 informed decisions in their and information: and opportunities to achieve their and 2016 reporting periods, we choice of product.
Is not prepared in full potential, diversity can improved the robustness of our accordance with the 1 flourish, everyone is respected, data collection system Using the expertise of our agreed verification criteria.
and talent is recognised and internally and procured an Global Product Teams and developed.
No employee will be independent external audit with an increased drive for It is our opinion that Keller discriminated against due to of that data.
As a result of the digitisation across our business, has established appropriate their age, gender, race, religion, steps taken, we were able to we have been able to minimise systems for the collection, national origin, sexual preference clearly demonstrate our waste materials on our sites aggregation and analysis of or gender identity.
This is not effective management of through digitally optimising quantitative data for only about being fair, it also climate change-related mixing parameters in techniques determination of these GHG makes sound business sense.
business risks and opportunities such as wet soil mixing.
emissions for the stated and improved our CDP rating period and boundaries.
We believe that equal from D Disclosure to B We have also been able to make opportunity means hiring and Management.
use of sustainably sourced and retaining the best people, verified timber as an alternative developing all employees to During 2016 our carbon material for retaining walls over their potential and using their emission intensity reduced.
traditional steel sheets, talents and resources to the full.
producing a lower carbon Diversity of people, skills and intensive solution.
abilities is a strength which will help us to achieve our best.
Global GHG emissions data Tonnes CO e 2016 2015 2014 2 However, there is clearly room Scope 1 170,752 168,392 170,031 for improvement and more for us 2 to do in this area.
During 2017, a Scope 2 10,319 9,032 9,531 review of our current practices will Total 181,071 177,424 179,562 assist us in developing a coherent Absolute tonnes equivalent strategy to attract, develop and CO per m revenue: 102 114 112 retain under-represented groups 2 in our workforce.
1 Note that some of the fuel we use in our equipment is purchased by the main contractor which we are currently unable to report due to the difficulties with collecting accurate data on it.
At the end of the financial year, 2 Reported under location based methodology.
Please refer to Kellers CDP the breakdown of male female submission for Scope 2 emissions under market based methodology.
employees was as follows: Level of organisation Male Female Board of Directors 6 2 Executive Committee 9 1 Group Leadership Team 65 7 Senior Managers 74 8 Managers 328 50 All employees 8,970 881 Excludes contractors Keller Group plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Sustainability continued Life on Land During the year Keller has improved its processes for capturing and recording environmental incidents, including a number of poster campaigns amongst our employees to increase their awareness of potential hazards and ways in which to reduce our impact on the environment.
Communities As a consequence, we have Geotechnical community seen an increase in the number Our companies take a of environmental incidents and leadership role within their are working with our people on industry by providing proactive ways in which to employees, customers, reduce these, primarily on-site.
suppliers and potential Decent work and employees with technical economic growth papers, seminars, field trips Our people and site visits.
Staff from Keller employs around 10,000 companies throughout the people worldwide, most of group maintain close contact whom are working in front-line with partner universities in roles meeting with, and order to share best practice delivering for, our customers.
and provide examples of their We are only as good as our leading-edge engineering.
employees, which is why we want to be known as a Many of our senior managers responsible employer which play key roles in the geotechnical people are proud to join.
construction industrys professional associations and As a group, we believe in treating activities around the world, all employees with fairness, getting involved in writing encouragement and respect building codes, specifications, and we do not tolerate any guidelines, and industry-wide behaviour or attitude that safety initiatives.
discriminates against anyone, coerces, intimidates, bullies or Wider community harasses others, or threatens In terms of engagement with them with verbal or physical the wider community in which Case study violence.
We support every we work, we are generally Think Green individuals human rights and working for a main contractor, Keller Indias Think Green Project assisted the local community refuse the use of child labour who is the party responsible for through the contribution and planting of trees to a small village in and forced labour under any consulting with any community Pradesh, where villagers have been able to establish fruit tree circumstances.
The groups affected by the project.
Our plantations providing both long-term sustainable income and Modern slavery and human work comes at the outset of a environment balance.
trafficking statement can be project and we are typically on found on our website.
and off the project very quickly: and our job sites are often in One of the ways in which we remote locations, where we measure how well we are doing have no interface with members as an employer is to measure of the public.
There are our staff turnover, and this key occasions when we are working performance indicator for each in built-up areas or in proximity Division is shown in the to the public, and on these Operating review on pages projects we strive to reduce 10 to 15. our noise and dust levels and to conduct our work in a considerate manner.
Typically, where we have some community engagement, it is by supporting our employees when they get involved with community groups and local charities.
40 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
