Our people: working as ONE Kingsher We can only ccessully realise and ain our transormation by harnessing the energy, enthusiasm, skills and expertise of our people.
Emily Lawson Chief People Ocer We employ 74,000 people globally.
The goal Our people strategy of our people strategy is to ensure that we have the right people in the right place at the right time to deliver our ambition: and that our Our people colleagues feel involved, equipped, and have strategy the confidence to do their best work.
To deliver our ambition, we need to become ONE company, which we will do by building on the already strong local identities, teams and communities across all our retail brands and functions.
We are investing in working better together, to make the most of our scale and to better serve our customers.
We know from our strong and improving Ensure we Be the best engagement scores a grand mean score of 4.2 out of 5, can deliver we can be with 61% of our people fully engaged that those local the strategy identities provide a brilliant sense of being part of a team that is highly valued by our colleagues.
As we transform our business, we need all our colleagues to feel energised and excited to play their part.
We have already started to engage our leadership populations in making our strategy more robust, and, in the year ahead, Build Fix the Attract and Build on will involve more of our colleagues in testing, delivering capabilities things we keep great existing and implementing our ambition.
and dont do people strengths behaviours well now To ensure everyone feels able to do their best work, we will continue to invest in learning and on-the-job training, as well as providing opportunities for colleagues to connect with customers as illustrated in these case studies.
Case study: LEAD programme Case study: Re-thinking customer service from a customer perspective Kingfishers LEAD programme, sponsored Castorama colleagues from multiple by our most senior leaders, is building a countries are talking to customers in pipeline of talent for senior roles.
their homes about the improvements 15 colleagues completed the first intake, with eight they are carrying out.
having already taken bigger roles within the company.
Another 24 high-performing managers joined the These visits help colleagues see first-hand our programme in December 2015 and are now building customers reality and the barriers to completing their the leadership capabilities that will be essential for them home improvements.
In Poland alone 10,000 colleagues to transition into more complex roles in the future.
The project is providing insights that will inform future solutions and is building a great sense of camaraderie among colleagues as they work towards a common goal.
20 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Strategic Report Gender diversity We value diversity in all its forms and it is our policy to ensure there is no discrimination in employment on the grounds of race, gender, age, disability, marital status, sexual orientation or religious belief.
The charts below show gender diversity on our Board, among our senior managers and across our total workforce.
For more information please see the Corporate Governance report on page 39 and the Directors report on page 76.
Board Senior Management Total workforce FTE 20% 44% 61% 56% 80% 39% Male 56% Male 80% Male 61% Female 44% Female 20% Female 39% www.
com 21 Road map and milestones We have a very clear longer-term road map for our strategy, together with operational milestones for the first year.
Our road map The longer-term road map is aligned to the three key strategic pillars: creating a unified, unique and leading offer, driving our digital capability and optimising our operational efficiency, alongside work on our retail operations.
Key elements include the development of the uni ed and We will continue with the retail expansion of Screw x unique o er, which started to arrive in stores this spring with Europe, including more stores in Germany, as well as the core essentials range.
We are also developing the new the development of the Brilliant Basics plan to deliver a organisational structure for this part of the business, including step-change in King shers omnichannel o er to customers.
a board structure led by Chief O er & Supply Chain O cer The roll-out of the uni ed IT platform will continue, starting Arja Taaveniku.
Her board includes a sustainability director with B&Q UK & Ireland and Castorama France.
to ensure that sustainability is integrated in our supply chain.
2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 2018 19 2019 20 2020 21 New Uni ed & Unique O er Uni ed & New OSC organisation Unique O er Cut the tail Uni ed IT platform roll-out Digital Digital Brilliant Basics Store closures Operational GNFR E ciency Further operational e ciency initiatives Retail best practices Store of the future Retail Screw x Europe retail expansion Operations Retail expansion excluding Screw x O er and Supply Chain Goods not for resale 22 King sher Annual Report 2015 16 Strategic Report Progress on our first sharp decisions We have made solid progress on the first sharp decisions announced in 2015.
Develop unied unique outdoor and bathroom ranges Develop unied core essential oer Customer & Oer Develop plan to cut existing product tail Space rationalisation: Close c. 15% surplus space at B&Q Close our few loss-making stores in Europe Retail Operations Pilot Big Box best practice across Europe Extend Screwx trial in Germany Pilot unied IT platform, then accelerate Infrastructure Unify 1.2bn goods not for resale GNFR process & Processes Finalise new leadership team and wider organisation structure People Operational milestones We have set operational milestones for the first year FY 2016 17 based on our strategic pillars.
These include: achieving 4% unied cost of goods sold, driven by the phased launch of the first 20 categories of core essential ranges, building the digital brilliant basics platform for B&Q, and delivering the benets of Wave 1 of the unied GNFR programme.
Unied & Deliver Oer & Supply Chain Organisation OSC Unique Achieve 4% unied COGS Oer Complete unied IT platform roll-out in B&Q and start Castorama France roll-out Digital Build digital Brilliant Basics platform for B&Q Complete closure of c. 15% surplus space at B&Q Operational Eciency Deliver benets from unied Wave 1 of GNFR programme www.
