Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Safety, Health and Environment Committee report SHE Committee allocation of time % Nick Winser Chair Behavioural safety self-assessment Current SHE performance SHE strategy Training SHE initiatives Health Environment Mouchel integration Dear shareholder, Principal activities 2016 financial year I am pleased to present the Safety, Health and Environment A summary of the Committees principal activities in the 2016 Committee report for 2016. financial year is as follows: This report provides a summary of the Committees activities Review of policies and procedures during 2016.
I will be available to answer any questions about During the 2015 financial year, we announced the appointment of the work of the Committee at the AGM on 18 November 2016. a new Group SHE Director, John Edwards.
One of Johns principal areas of focus has been to review the Groups policies and The health and safety of all those who visit and work at the procedures relating to the management of SHE risks.
John Groups sites, together with the protection of the environment hasmade good progress, as demonstrated, for example, by arekey priorities for Kier.
It is therefore important that the Group thesimplification of the Kier SHE management systems and has a well-established and robust governance structure, led by animprovement in the quality of SHE training undertaken the Committee, to ensure that safety, health and environment throughout the Group.
SHE matters are appropriately managed by the Group.
SHE performance and strategy The Group now operates on several hundred sites at any one The Committee has continued to review managements plans time, both throughout the UK and internationally, and its projects toensure that the management of SHE issues remains a top are both complex and inherently dangerous.
I am therefore priority in the context of Vision 2020. pleased tobe able to report, overall, a strong SHE performance in2016: however, we remain committed to seeking continuous During the year, the Committee reviewed the Groups SHE improvement in the management of SHE risks in the workplace.
performance against an agreed set of KPIs, which are designed to support the Groups strategic priority of operating a safe and Role sustainable business.
Iam pleased to report that, overall, good The role of the Committee includes: progress has been made against these targets.
TheCommittee has also reviewed progress against the Groups SHE strategic Assisting the Board to review the Groups strategy with business plan, which describes the Groups strategy with respect respectto SHE matters: to the management of SHE issues.
Encouraging management accountability with respect to managing the Groups SHE risks: Behavioural safety self-assessment Reviewing and, as necessary, approving material Group-wide In the 2015 Annual Report, I referred to the Committees SHE initiatives, policies and procedures: oversight of the behavioural safety self-assessment which Receiving reports on any major SHE incidents: and wasbeing conducted across the Group to assess each business Monitoring the Groups performance against SHE targets.
cultural maturity in order to set a benchmark against which to measure the Groups SHE culture andperformance.
The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed on the Companys website at http: www.
During the 2016 financial year, the results of this self-assessment have been used to assist the development of an integrated SHE Composition and meeting attendance culture following the acquisition of Mouchel.
The revised Group The members of the Committee at 30 June 2016 were: policies and procedures please see Review of policies and Nick Winser Chair procedures above have supported the development of this Justin Atkinson culture.
In addition, management has introduced a number of Kirsty Bashforth innovative techniques for example, an app to assist the collection Amanda Mellor of data and communicate SHE best practice across the business, an interactive guidance pack for new starters on site and various The Chief Executive, the Executive Director Construction and succinct best practice guides for SHE advisers and managers.
Infrastructure Services, the Executive Director Developments, Property and Business Services and the Group SHE Director are Health and wellbeing expected to attend meetings, unless they are notified to the During the year, the Committee has overseen theintroduction contrary.
The secretary of the Committee is the Company Secretary.
ofa health and wellbeing programme throughout the Group.
Details of attendance at Committee meetings during the 2016 financial year are set out on page 51.
63 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Statement Safety, Health and Environment Committee report continued The principal aim of the programme has been to raise awareness Mouchel integration of common health issues.
The programme included initiatives ranging from a health kiosk which tested staff on core health issues, which visited various offices and sites around the country, to raising awareness of more significant occupational health issues.
Environmental matters Management has established a set of KPIs against which it measures the Groups environmental performance, including with respect to carbon emissions, water usage and waste management.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Groups performance against these KPIs and was pleased to note that good progress was being made.
In addition, the Committee During our due diligence on Mouchel, we were able to obtain an reviewed the statistics relating to the reporting of environmental early understanding of how it managed SHE risks and identified incidents forexample, effluence leakages or spillages and noise a common approach in a number of areas.
Subsequently, we or dust pollution and challenged management to take appropriate have aligned the structure of the legacy Mouchel SHE function action following such incidents.
The Committee also oversaw with Kiers equivalent, integrated the reporting of SHE statistics Kiers Environment Week in June 2016, the principal objective and, where appropriate, migrated data and processes from of whichwas to increase awareness of environmental issues external systems used by Mouchel to Kiers systems.
Committee performance evaluation Mouchel integration As part of the 2016 Board performance evaluation, the Committee One of the key projects overseen by management during the year assessed its own effectiveness.
Committee members agreed was the integration of Mouchels and Kiers respective SHE policies that, overall, the Committees performance had beeneffective and procedures, creating a uniform set of policies and procedures during the year.
The Committee identified providing oversight of across the enlarged Group.
Management, the business and the the steps taken by management to promote health and wellbeing SHEteams have worked hard to ensure that this integration was issues throughout the Group and to support the Groups conducted in an efficient manner, with as little disruption to the commitment to operating a safe and sustainable business as combined business aspossible.
Further details are set out opposite.
being two principal areas of focus during the 2017 financial year.
Current performance At each of its meetings during the year, the Committee reviewed the Groups current SHE performance.
A range of statistics, supported by an appropriate commentary, was tabled for discussion.
The Committee has continued to challenge management to ensure that the remedial actions which are taken following high-potential Nick Winser incidents are closed-out in a timely manner, that such incidents Chair of the Safety, Health and Environment Committee continue to be reported and that the learning points are communicated across the Group.
21 September 2016 Regulatory investigations From time to time, the Health and Safety Executive the HSE andthe Environment Authority the EA will conduct investigations into incidents which occur on the Groups sites.
Some of these investigations result in court proceedings being taken against the Group and, as a committee, we work with management to ensure that its approach to the conduct of these proceedings is appropriate, in particular in light of the new sentencing guidelines for health and safety offences which came into force in February 2016.
During the year, the Committee monitored the status of the HSEs investigation into a fatality which took place in March 2014 on the BFK joint ventures site atFarringdon station part of the Crossrail project, together with two other incidents which occurred in January 2015 on the joint ventures site at Bond Street.
In addition, the Committee oversaw managements response to the EAs prosecution of the KMI joint venture following an environmental incident on a site in the North West inDecember 2013.
64 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
