Our customers We are basing everything we do on the reality of our customers lives.
Customer insights The world around us is changing and this is having an important impact on the way our customers lead their lives.
Many of these changes are driven by major, universal mega-trends.
For example, globalisation is a fact of everyday life.
Major demographic changes are accelerating, and by 2050 This included visiting the homes of 3,000 people and having two-thirds of the worlds population will live in urban areas.
in-depth conversations with them about their homes.
Based Ageing populations are a feature of many of our markets and on this research, we know that: 30-45% of homes in Western Europe are single households.
people are improving their homes with the same purpose And of course, digital technology is changing the way people they want a home that is good to live in: 90% of peoples buy, shop and research.
happiness comes from having a home they love: Other trends also require us to rethink our business models.
customer needs are more similar than they are di erent.
For The concept of the sharing economy is developing fast, example, in King sher countries the average age of housing with sharing and exchanging now becoming more common stock is between 50 and 60 years, and 74% of bathrooms as an alternative to simply buying products and services.
are smaller than seven square meters.
Home decoration In addition, scarcity of natural resources means that the tastes are also converging with, for example, a bathroom cost of energy is a frequent concern for many people, in France or Poland looking very similar to one in the UK: with an estimated 11% of Europes population struggling to pay their energy bills.
most home improvers have limited resources and limited skills: and Given all this change, King sher needs to change too, alongside basing everything we do on the reality of our customer home improvement journeys can be long and customers lives.
Over the past year we have conducted complex, with many barriers and restraints.
For example, research within 20,000 homes across Europe.
a typical bathroom project can take up to seven months to nish and 39% of home improvers in France abandon their bathroom project well before completion.
Average income per month UK France Spain Portugal Poland Russia We are basing everything we do on the reality of our customers lives.
10 King sher Annual Report 2015 16 0 500 1500 2500 3500 Strategic Report A good home We have developed a point of view about what a good home is, based on the research that weve been doing over the past year.
These are the fundamental elements of the home that our customers tell us make it a good home.
Our aim is to help them achieve it.
A good home is a home that is: functional evolves with green outside and in sustainable family needs resource and clean, healthy durable in coordinated to provides the energy smart and comfortable quality and style look good best economics possible The customer journey What is also clear is that, for most people, home improvement is a challenge.
Customer journeys are often long and complex, with many barriers and constraints.
Based on our customer knowledge, we know that for all Our aim is to better service the whole customer journey, home improvement projects there are seven common which will ultimately lead to more satisfied customers steps on the customer journey.
and encourage more people do more home improvement projects.
Today we only play a small part in our customers journeys, largely at the purchase stage.
Remind Motivate Enable Extend Needs & Inspire & Plan & Purchase & Build & Use & Maintain & triggers visualise evaluate deliver install enjoy improve www.
