Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Man Charitable Trust 2016 has been a year of change: politically, economically and for the Man Charitable Trust.
Our experience is that smaller charities tend to be particularly impacted by public sector spending cuts, with a corresponding effect on Registered charity no: 275386 some of the most vulnerable in society.
In 2016, the Man Charitable Trust continued and we are delighted that once again a good Discover Childrens Story Centre tofocus its grant-making activity on charities proportion of Man employees volunteered their Discover Childrens Story Centre is an interactive that are able to demonstrate an improvement time, experience and skills during the past year.
literature venue for children aged 011, families inliteracy and numeracy skills in the UK, whilst and teachers based in Stratford.
The Centre more broadly raising education attainment.
This Man volunteers provided support to those in promotes literacy through an extensive focus was further refined to support individual need in the local community, undertaking a community education programme targeting charities promoting literacy and numeracy, range of activities including guiding students vulnerable and disadvantaged children.
This rather than schools and universities, which through financial literacy programmes and work focuses on developing literacy, oracy and havebeen supported in the past.
Literacy weekly reading sessions for primary school listening through stories and childrens literature.
andnumeracy skills are acknowledged as not children and sorting and packaging food at a only having an impact on individuals health local foodbank.
A team of employee volunteers The Trusts donation will support the Catching andhappiness, but also having a significant supporting a local foodbank collected over one Words project, a literacy-focused intervention impact on the economic competitiveness and tonne of food in a Christmas collection for one programme delivered in a range of schools.
Approximately 17 million of the poorest boroughs in London.
Catching Words focuses on reading, writing, adults in the UK are working at Entry Level 3 or speaking and listening to raise childrens below in numeracy the skills expected of an We would like to express our thanks to all the aspirations, confidence, attitude and attainment 11 year old.
Literacy levels tell a similar story: in Man employees who supported our charitable in literacy.
The programme engages professional some of the poorest areas of the UK up to 35% programmes during the year and to those who writers, storytellers and poets, who work with of the adult population lack the literacy skills donated via their Give as You Earn accounts.
children over a nine week period.
Additionally, we congratulate those who independently fundraised for charities of National Literacy Trust This year, the Trusts structure transitioned to theirchoice and whose donations were proudly The National Literacy Trust is the UKs largest anew model, whereby it is administered by the matched by the Man Charitable Trust up to the independent literacy charity, working to ensure Trustees with the support of other departments value of 1,000.
Sponsorship matching totalled that disadvantaged children in the UK have the within Man Group.
Teun Johnston, Man GLGs 15,691 for 2016. literacy skills needed for education and to lead CEO, became Chair of the Trustees, with a successful life.
Antoine Forterre, Man AHLs COO, and Featured grants KeithHaydon, Man FRMs CIO, also joining as The Man Charitable Trust awards grants to The Trusts donation will assist funding a pilot Trustees.
In 2017, the Trust intends to continue charities that work towards raising the levels of programme called London loves Libraries, to provide support to charities that are able to literacy and numeracy in the UK.
Examples of which focuses on improving school library evidence their ability to improve literacy and Grants awarded in 2016 include: provisions and training school teaching numeracy outcomes.
assistants to become effective library Mayors Fund for London coordinators.
The Trust spent $592,219 in charitable The Mayors Fund for London is a social donations and employee engagement mobility charity which seeks to empower young Vision for Literacy Business Pledge programmes over 2016.
In the UK, the projects Londoners from disadvantaged backgrounds The Man Group is also a signatory of the Vision supported by the Trust benefitted thousands of to acquire the skills and opportunities they for Literacy Business Pledge 2017, having also vulnerable children, young people and adults needto secure employment and escape the signed the 2016 Pledge.
The Vision for Literacy living in disadvantaged neighbourhoods, threat of poverty.
Business Pledge galvanises the business sector providing them with the essential skills they behind the literacy challenge, with signatories need to succeed in life and make a positive The Trusts donation has gone towards committing to taking practical action that will contribution to society.
fundingthe Count on Us Parental Engagement deliver tangible benefits in helping to raise UK project, which focuses on improving maths literacy levels.
Signing the Pledge once again Our supported charities also gained from the attainment, particularly for children from demonstrates our commitment to tackling the time and effort given by Man Group employees disadvantaged backgrounds.
The project literacy challenge by taking action within the through our ManKind community volunteering engages disadvantaged families in the workforce, the local community and at programme.
The ManKind programme enables mathematical learning of their children by nationallevel.
UK employees to take two additional days paid delivering a range ofinterventions in London F or more case studies visit www.
com leave per annum to volunteer with charities primary schools.
Theresults of the programme supported by the Man Charitable Trust or with include significant improvements in childrens a charity of their choice.
The positive social concentration levels during maths lessons and benefits that stem from employees skills, better than expected assessment results among experience and knowledge can make a real many of the pupils, as well as 88% of difference to local communities.
Volunteering participating children saying their maths also provides a highly cost-effective and confidence had improved.
valuable method of achieving positive learning and development benefits for our employees 44 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016
