Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements People and corporate responsibility People At Man Group, we believe in the importance of a meritocratic workplace, where success is based upon talent, commitment, diligence and teamwork.
By celebrating diversity, we encourage original and collaborative thinking, helping us deliver the best solutions for our clients.
We seek to attract and retain the best people, and to ensure everyone at Man Group has the opportunity to reach their full potential.
EMPLOYEES A high calibre, motivated workforce is a critical In 2016, we announced the planned acquisition component for any business which is looking of Aalto, a real estate investment manager as toachieve superior performance.
Our culture part of our expansion into private markets.
As encourages collaboration and teamwork across well as diversifying our client offering, this new 1,257 teams, departments and geographies offering area enables us to onboard new talent within as at 31 December 2016 our employees the opportunity to work in a firm the UK, Switzerland and US.
which gives them career opportunities within an engaging and enjoyable work environment.
Whilst striving to develop and progress talent from within the existing business, external VOLUNTARY EMPLOYEE TURNOVER Talent recruitment has also remained active.
Key hires Our focus on hiring, developing and retaining during 2016 included Stuart Webster as Head of talent at entry level is evident.
Our two year Core and Core Plus Real Estate, Maggie Gresio investment management and sales graduate who joined our Global Sales and Marketing team 8.6% programme and structured summer internship as Managing Director, Juan Parra who manages in 2016 programme, launched in 2014, attracted record Centre Book within GLGs European and Global numbers of applications this year.
In 2016, six Long-Short Strategies, and Fabian Blohm who new graduate trainees joined us, four of whom was hired as Man GLGs Head of Quantitative secured graduate offers having previously Analytics.
Outside of investment management, completed summer internships with us.
We Cyril Reol joined as Chief Technology Officer and alsosaw our first intake of graduates complete Michael Kasper was hired as Head of Corporate their two year programmes and move into roles Development and Group Treasurer.
The summer internship programme continues to be a good source Since 2013, in a commitment to tackle oftalent for the graduate programme 60% youthunemployment in London, we have conversion rate in 2016, and we continue to offered apprenticeships through a partnership invest in our intern recruitment with our next with City Gateway our apprentice provider.
We cohort coming on board in summer 2017. currently have our third cohort on board, working in Operations, Technology and Compliance.
Our Activities targeting retention include annual apprentices undertake a structured programme performance evaluation and succession combining work and study, and are fully planning processes, alongside a focus on supported by supervisors, assigned buddies career development and support for internal and human resources.
They have also had transfers.
Whilst the annual review is a valuable exposure to Mans business leaders as they all opportunity for giving and receiving feedback had the opportunity to spend time with our CEO, on performance and career development, our President and Chairman.
The programme gives ongoing succession planning process facilitates the apprentices wide-ranging and valuable the identification of key talent throughout the experience which will help them build their business and mitigates continuity risk.
careers and offers us the opportunity to hire keen and committed junior employees from The reorganisation of senior responsibilities adifferent talent pool.
We hope to continue following the departure of our previous CEO building our relationship with City Gateway was entirely managed without the need to hire andwill look to take on our fourth cohort externally.
Significant internal promotions during ofapprentices in 2017.
2016 included Steven Desmyter becoming Co-Head of Sales, Giuliana Bordigoni heading up AHLs Fixed Income team, and Pierre-Henri Flamand becoming CIO of GLG.
We were also pleased to see voluntary turnover remained at a relatively low level.
40 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements INTERNAL TRANSFERS 78 in 2016 PEOPLE BY FUNCTION % Headcount Equality and diversity Organic growth within the business means Man Groups culture is based on mutual Group headcount, including contractors and respect for others and discrimination by any December 2013 30 18 33 19 consultants, has increased from 1,230 at individual on the grounds of age, disability, 31 December 2015 to 1,257 at 31 December gender, race, religion, sexual orientation or December 2014 31 17 33 19 2016.
The ratio of support function employees educational background is not tolerated.
We December 2015 33 15 31 21 to front office remains approximately one to offer tangible support through our employee one, which we believe to be in line with industry assistance programmes, which are designed December 2016 32 15 32 21 best practice.
toassist individuals with aspects of their lives outside the workplace which may affect their Investment management Remuneration and benefits ability to perform.
Sales and Marketing Our remuneration policies and practices are Product and Client Operations and Technology designed to enable us to remain competitive Full and fair consideration is given by Man to inthe increasingly global markets in which applications for employment made by disabled Central management and support weoperate.
Remuneration packages include persons, having regard to their aptitudes and Note: combinations of salary, annual performance abilities.
Man Groups Global Inclusion Policy Job function based on business unit, not individual role bonus and deferred share fund awards, outlines our commitment to ensuring a diverse alongwith other non-cash benefits.
The bonus workforce and our opposition to discrimination deferral arrangement is a key mechanism of any form, including on the basis of disability.
forfocusing employees on Man Groups The Company ensures that disabled persons long-term performance.
are fairly treated in respect of training and career development.
For those who become Benefits packages are benchmarked annually disabled during their employment, reasonable to ensure we remain competitive and aligned adjustments are made and ongoing support is with the market.
During 2016 we again offered provided as required to enable the individual to our UK-based employees the opportunity continue working.
toparticipate in the Man Group Sharesave Scheme at the maximum limit and discount Achieving a better balance between male allowed by HMRC.
andfemale employees across the business andparticularly at a senior level, is a challenge many financial services organisations face and it continues to be a key priority for Man Group.
We remain committed to promoting gender diversity at all levels, and we currently have three women who sit on the Executive Committee as shown in the table on page 43, and who have received accolades and recognition for being top performers in theirfields.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 41 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements People and corporate responsibility continued STAFF BY GENDER % We also currently have several initiatives in place Man Group is committed to increasing female to support and encourage our female talent.
participation in its graduate programme, and we Man Group continues to develop DRIVE as an are delighted to see progress in this area with Total workforce 71 29 internal support network, with a programme of female graduates in our 2016 and 2017 intakes.
regular events to inform and support women Furthermore, we have continued to sponsor the Senior managers 16 84 within the Group, as well as providing networking European Girls Mathematical Olympiad as part Board of directors 90 10 opportunities both internally and externally.
of our effort to support and encourage female Alongside this initiative, Man Group has also talent in the potential pipeline for financial Male developed and piloted a mentoring programme services careers.
To support our focus on for high potential employees to develop and ensuring female talent sees technology as a Female retain female talent.
Mans pilot returner potential career path, we offered a technology programme started in 2015 and targeted work experience programme for year 10 girls individuals who had taken a career break and during 2016 which was well received.
The girls subsequently wished to return to the workforce.
were encouraged to continue developing their We were pleased to take on two senior females technology skills and the programme gave them for returner placements during 2016, and that an insight into how they could use technology in one has secured a permanent role with the firm.
The returner programme offers a level of flexibility in terms of working hours, and we are starting During 2016, Man continued to build its tosee an increase in flexible working more relationship with Sponsors for Educational generally around the business a positive Opportunity London SEO to help us source stepto support the large proportion of our talent from more diverse backgrounds.
SEO workforce who have children or other caring prepares talented students from ethnic minority responsibilities.
Following the success of the or low socioeconomic backgrounds for career pilot programme, we intend to run further success.
We hosted an onsite masterclass for returner programmes during 2017.
20 SEO candidates and we have been pleased to see increased diversity in our graduate and intern applications as a result of these collaborative efforts.
Man Group strongly believes in the benefits ofadiverse and multi-cultural workforce and isconfident that the current multifaceted approach will enable the firm to progress its diversity agenda.
42 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development, engagement and support Our Global Mobility Programme enables In order to maximise the potential of our ustomeet specific business needs within employees, we work with all areas of the givenmarkets or business areas, and to offer business to support training and development international placements transfers to our staff.
This covers a wide range of initiatives This assists with attracting, retaining and including technical courses, team development developing our people whilst simultaneously and individual executive coaching.
A new strengthening our global footprint, creating a mentoring programme was introduced in diverse talent pool with broader experiences Operations and Technology during 2016 which andenhancing collaboration across the firm.
has resulted in 21 pairings to date, and Work Smart, our bite size soft skills training offering Slavery and human trafficking has continued to be popular, with 12 modules Man Group is committed to ensuring that delivered during the year and over modern slavery does not exist within our supply NATIONALITIES WORKING AT MAN 170attendees.
chains or any part of our business.
Man Group has a zero tolerance approach to slavery and 360 review processes are increasingly being human trafficking and we expect all those in our 54 used to gather feedback, enabling individuals to supply chain to comply with those values.
Man as at 31 December 2016 receive comments from a number of sources Group will not support or deal with any which supports their development.
In addition, business knowingly involved in slavery we run a number of in-house educational orhuman trafficking.
events such as Business Education sessions and informal breakfast discussions hosted by Please refer to our website, www.
com, for members of the Executive Committee.
our full Modern Slavery Transparency Statement.
Employees receive regular updates and presentations on Group results and major decisions which affect them through face to facemeetings or, if necessary, via video link.
The Man intranet is used to provide supplementary updates from senior management on all aspects of our business and is a crucial part of the dissemination of knowledge and information.
Man Group Executive Committee Luke Ellis Chief Executive Officer, Man Group Eric Burl Head of Man Americas Steven Desmyter Head of Sales & Marketing, EMEA from 26 July 2016 Mike Even Chairman, Numeric Pierre-Henri Flamand Chief Investment Officer, GLG Rob Furdak Co-Chief Investment Officer, Numeric from 1 December 2016 Geoff Galbraith Chief Operating Officer, Man Group Nick Granger Co-Head of Research and Deputy Chief Investment Officer, AHL Robyn Grew Chief Administrative Officer, Man Group Keith Haydon Chief Investment Officer, FRM Teun Johnston Chief Executive Officer, GLG Mark Jones Chief Financial Officer Michelle McCloskey President, FRM Shanta Puchtler President and Chief Executive Officer, Numeric Sandy Rattray Chief Investment Officer and Man Group Chief Executive Officer, AHL Cyril Reol Chief Technology Officer from 1 September 2016 Matthew Sargaison Chief Investment Officer, AHL Kate Squire Global Head, Compliance & Regulatory from 1 September 2016 Jonathan Sorrell President Tim Wong Chairman, AHL and Chairman, Man Asia Joined the executive committee from this date Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 43
