49 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN GOVERNANCE EVENT In my introduction on page 30 I touched on throughout the year and not just at our The annual M&S Governance Event the importance of having a clearly fide ned AGM.
During the year, the business had 431 is hosted by the Chairman, Robert Board culture and ensuring that the way in contacts with 253 separately identi able Swannell, and is attended by our Senior which the Board operates as a team is fully institutions via one-to-one or group Independent Director, Committee integrated with our values.
This is equally meetings hosted by an executive director Chairmen and senior representative s important in determining the Boards or our Investor Relations team.
For my of our Plan A department.
Board approach to engaging with our investors, part, I have had discussions on a variety attendees in 2016 will be Vindi Banga as we believe that staying in touch with of governance matters with numerous Senior Independent Director and them through regular, open dialogue and investors, industry representatives and Chairman of our Remuneration candid debate forms the strong foundation Chairs of other leading FTSE companies.
Committee, Andy Halford Chairman of this important relationship.
Additionally, in June I once again hosted of our Audit Committee, Amanda Mellor our annual Governance Event, details of Inevitably, there will be areas in which our Group Secretary and Head of Corporate which are provided on the right.
views and those of our investors will Governance and Adam Elman our Head diverge.
However, we rmly believe that We also stay in touch with the views and of Global Plan A Delivery.
encouraging points of diff erence to be opinions of our private investors by Invitations are sent to our 30 largest debated openly is a signi cant advantage, engaging with a number of leading client shareholders, plus representatives helping us to understand the concerns of brokers who typically represent our private from in uential investor advisory rms our investors while framing the discussion shareholder base.
Our Investor Relations and industry governance specialists.
in the context of our wider business team receive independent guidance from The event is an opportunity to meet objectives to ensure we are clear about capital markets advisory rm Makinson and discuss the wide range of matters what we are trying to achieve.
Cowell, which undertakes an annual audit considered by the Board, both of our major investors views on the We believe that our trusted relationship during the year and going forward.
with our shareholders is enhanced by our Presentations at the meeting will The results of its audit are presented to the commitment to staying in touch with them focus on the following six areas: Board each year.
The Board Audit Risk AMANDA MELLOR GROUP SECRETARY Remuneration Plan A Q&As In addition to remaining in touch with our The archive has also excelled in developing The presentation will be available to view investors, we also believe in utilising M&Ss initiatives that draw from M&Ss heritage at marksandspencer.
com thecompany unique heritage and long history to engage to engage with communities on important following the event.
beyond this traditional stakeholder group.
issues such as dementia support.
It has In last years Annual Report I highlighted introduced reminiscence sessions for AGM the innovative contributions towards this groups visiting from care homes and day from our acclaimed Company Archive in centres, and in 2016 launched its own The 2016 AGM will be held at Wembley Leeds, which I am pleased to say continued monthly Memory Caf in conjunction Stadium in London on Tuesday 12 July at its record of consistent excellence over with the Alzheimers Society.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the the course of the year.
the archive off ers a range of digital schedule for the day and the resolutions reminiscence resources for people living to be proposed at the meeting.
A copy During 2015 the archive continued to with dementia, their families and carers, of the Notice can be downloaded at improve the accessibility of its collection utilising images and samples of products marksandspencer.
through digitisation, adding a further 2,600 from decades past to encourage social The meeting will be webcast live and archives to its online catalogue.
As a result, interaction through the sharing of a recording made available on our the number of students, academics and experiences.
Over 900 people to date have website after the event.
members of the public using the collection been engaged through these reminiscence for research purposes has increased by 61%.
The Board and M&Ss senior management sessions and digital resources, more team will be available for shareholders The archive also broadened its award information about which is available at to speak to before the meeting.
Robert winning education programme, partnering marksintime.
Swannell and the Chairs of our with the Princes Trust to introduce The work undertaken by the archive is Committees will be available to answer workshops to support children who have underpinned by our close partnership shareholders questions during the been or are at risk of exclusion from school.
with the University of Leeds, to which I am formal proceedings of the meeting.
Alongside this direct work with schools, proud to make my own contribution by the archive also expanded its successful The AGM in 2015 was well-attended and promoting the importance of ethical Heritage Ambassador Scheme to the South all of the proposed resolutions were leadership as a Visiting Professor of the London region in 2015.
To date, these passed, with the percentage of the Universitys Ethics Centre.
Ambassadors have helped M&S stores to Companys share capital voted in favour connect with local schools by delivering of each ranging from 89.34% to 99.99%.
25 workshops focussing on the history of See Shareholder information on p127-128 M&S, Plan A and the environment to over 650 school children.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
