10 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE OUR RESOURCES & RELATIONSHIPS OUR BUSINESS MODEL FINANCIAL We create long-term value through the Generating returns for eff ective use of our resources and relationships.
our stakeholders through We manage these in line with our core values of eff ective management of our financial resources Inspiration, Innovation, Integrity and In Touch.
These values in uence how we behave and they OUR PRODUCT & CHANNELS run through everything we do they make the Maintaining our channels and M&S diff erence: making every moment special supply chain infrastructure to meet customer demand through the products and services we off er our customers in the UK and internationally.
OUR INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Strengthening our brand through creation and protection of our intellectual property LISTEN & RESPOND STRATEGY & PLANNING DEVELOP & DESIGN Activities: Our customers are our most Activities: We create long-term sustainable Activities: By cultivating talent and important stakeholders.
Through detailed value through the delivery of our strategy harnessing our peoples ideas, we can understanding of their needs and changing and prudent financial management.
continue to develop the delicious behaviours, we can achieve our core We will continue to invest in the business and stylish products that our customers purpose of making every moment special.
to support future growth whilst tightly love.
65% of our clothing ranges are now Our Customer Insight Unit analyses controlling costs.
It is not only financial designed in-house and this will rise to 70% feedback from over 60,000 customers resources that need effi cient management as we continue to create value from our a month.
We also gather insights from it is natural resources too.
The skills in our Food our team of over 65,000 employees who we are evolving a more sustainable way of team cover the breadth of the industry, serve customers in our stores.
Plan A in uences every stage of from nutrition to marine biology, and our we engage with over 5 million followers our planning, and infuses all that we do.
product developers are experts in scouring daily on social media.
By continually the world for the latest trends and avours.
Outcome: By strengthening our financial analysing what they tell us, we can equip position through the delivery of improved Outcome: Direct design gives us greater our people with the insight to learn and pro ts and strong cash ow, we are exibility and control over how we source adapt to meet our customers needs.
so we can better respond to the market Outcome: Knowing what our customers and customer demand.
The expertise in want helps us tailor our products, channels our Food team gives us the authority to and services around them so that they deliver the new and exciting products have more reasons to shop with M&S.
G N I N N A B L R P A N & D Y G & E S T E A L R L T S S D O N U O R P C S E 11 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 FIND OUT MORE Read more about Risk on p27-29 Read more about KPIs on p18-21 Read how our business model creates Financial, Nonfinancial and Strategic value on p12-13 OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR RESOURCES & RELATIONSHIPS PLAN A OUR PEOPLE INSPIRATION Developing our employees Aim to excite and and their knowledge inspire our customers CORE OUR STAKEHOLDERS PURPOSE IN TOUCH INNOVATION Listen actively Aim to improve MAKING EVERY Building and nurturing relationships with MOMENT and act things for the our customers and suppliers, and in the SPECIAL thoughtfully better communities in which we operate INTEGRITY NATURAL RESOURCES Strive to do Sourcing responsibly and using the right thing natural resources effi ciently PLAN A THE M&S DIFFERENCE SOURCE & BUY BRAND & SELL SERVE & ENGAGE Activities: A sustainable supply chain is Activities: Our own brand model gives Activities: We know that our customers key to creating sustainable value.
Our team us a signi cant competitive advantage.
want great value every time they shop at of 450 employees in nine regional sourcing Our products are developed by M&S for M&S.
Value is about much more than price: offi ces in our key clothing sourcing markets, M&S.
By selling our own unique products its also about experience.
So off ering great including Bangladesh and China, are under our own brand, we forge lasting customer service is absolutely crucial to responsible for sourcing our products relationships with our customers.
They maintaining customer loyalty, and we put effi ciently and with integrity, working know that we do the right thing: 73% it at the heart of how we train and reward collaboratively with our buying and design of our products have a Plan A attribute.
Along with serving our teams.
We have excellent relationships with We sell our products through our own customers well, forging strong links with our Food suppliers, and have worked with brand channels: M&S stores and M&S.
the communities in which they live creates many of them for over 20 years, and some The M&S brand is the thread that runs long-term value.
By supporting causes for over 75 years.
All of our suppliers must through everything we do.
close to our customers and our peoples adhere to our Global Sourcing Principles, hearts, we ensure that these key Outcome: The value created by the M&S which cover every element of workers stakeholder groups work together for brand is our key point of diff erence and rights and working conditions.
the good of their local neighbourhoods.
distinguishes us from our competitors.
Outcome: Our sourcing strategy is Outcome: We have an increasingly driving margin improvements and we engaged workforce who live our values are increasing the number of products of Integrity and In Touch, and who are with a Plan A quality.
E R & B & U N Y E T S I L D E V E L O P E & G A D G E S N I E G N & E V R E S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
