STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability At the heart of all we do By being a responsible business we are leveraging sustainability todrive competitive advantage for our business.
Human rights Environment Labour Anti-corruption Find out more online www.
co. uk sustainability The Group has a sustainable business plan and has set KPIs Sustainability overview forthekeyareas of this plan.
It addresses economic, social and Corporate responsibility, awareness and mitigation of adverse impacts environmental aspects of Marshalls operations, underpinned onthe environment, and positive engagement with our community bythedevelopment of management systems recognised by andemployees have long been core values of Marshalls.
We aim to align anindependent third party BSI.
Sustainability and corporate our business values, purpose and strategy with the social, economic and responsibility are key elements of the Marshalls culture.
environmental needs of our stakeholders, embedding responsible and ethical business policies and practices in everything we do.
Human rights Marshalls supports human rights consistent with the Universal Our commitment to these values is led by the Board and Jack Clarke Declaration of Human Rights.
In conducting business across the globe isthe Director with primary responsibility for reporting to theBoard we respect these rights and seek to uphold, preserve and promote them.
onenvironmental, social and sustainability matters.
Our corporate responsibility to respect human rights means acting Marshalls won the award for Corporate Social Responsibility at the withdue diligence to avoid infringing upon the rights of others, and prestigious PLC Awards in March 2017. addressing any issues that do occur.
We recognise that our responsibility applies across all business activities, including business relationships with Marshalls sustainable business model Empowered by our brand values of leadership, excellence, trust third parties and those within our supply chain.
andsustainability we work passionately and diligently to uphold theUnitedNations Global Compact pillars of human rights, labour, environment andanti-corruption.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 25 STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability continued Environment Employees Our environmental objectives and targets are driven by a strong Marshalls is proud to be a Living Wage Employer, underscoring its commitment to compliance coupled with mitigation plans to commitment to its employees.
The Group is establishing a new defined addresslegislative and physical business risks, whilst maximising contribution pension scheme within a Master Trust operated by opportunities against a corporate strategic commitment to be Aviva Friends Life.
This will provide a much improved pension asustainable business.
At the heart of Marshalls sustainable business proposition for all employees.
model is an approach which combines key business issues and key We welcome and give full and fair consideration to applications performance indicators with third party verification, legislation and fromindividuals with recognised disabilities to ensure they have industry standards including ISO14001 for environmental management equal opportunity for employment and development in our business.
We have clear environmental, Wherever practicable we offer training and make adjustments to energy and climate change policies in place and are on track to meet ensure disabled employees are not disadvantaged in the workplace.
Key environmental issues for us are climate We also remain committed to employing a diverse workforce and, change, water and biodiversity.
Marshalls successful management of environmental issues has been recognised by third parties such inparticular, encouraging more women to enter what has traditionally been a highly male-dominated workplace.
At the end of2016 our workforce asBusiness in the Community.
In addition to our mandatory duty toreport annually on our greenhouse gas emissions, Marshalls comprised 2,250 employees with the following gender balance: Male Female continuesto report voluntarily to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Wereport in detail on our initiatives in the Sustainability Report Total workforce 88% 12% published on our website.
Senior managers 86% 14% Labour Directors 83% 17% From living wages in the UK to the elimination of child labour in India, we are committed to ensuring that what is good for business Employee engagement and development isgood for society.
Our approach to labour rights is driven by the Improving employee engagement across the Group continued to Ethical Trading Initiative ETI Base Code which we adopted in 2005. beanimportant priority in 2016.
Initiatives ranged from charitable To ensure that the Base Code is embedded within operations and events, a mobile employee wellbeing kiosk and the introduction of supply chains we have social auditors in India, China and Vietnam.
Charitable activities in 2016 raised Their role is to check each and every day that the Base Code is being nearly 80,000 for our chosen charity, Prostate Cancer UK.
upheld and to report any concerns or violations so that we can take swift We have increased our focus on Early Careers by doubling the action should we need to.
Marshalls has worked closely with external number of younger apprentices we employ in 2016 and through organisations to evaluate our business and supply chain against the theintroduction of a placement and work shadowing programme.
principles now embodied in the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and Tosupport development of the internal talent pool, we implemented eliminate slavery in all its forms.
a new management training programme during 2016, with more In 2016, the Board approved Marshalls Modern Slavery Statement than 100 employees taking part in a personal insights and behavioural which applies across our business and supply chain relationships and profiling initiative to improve their personal effectiveness.
Marshalls sets out Marshalls commitment to the abolition of slavery in all its forms.
issupporting a number of employees through a 4-year degree apprenticeship programme with Manchester Metropolitan University, Modern Slavery Statement www.
co. uk msa and in 2017 we expect to see an increase in the number of apprenticeships offered by the Group in particular manufacturing Anti-corruption and engineering with the introduction of the apprenticeship levy Marshalls is committed to conducting business with the utmost inApril, driving our Early Careers agenda to create a sustainable integrity and in accordance with the principles set out in theBribery anddiverse talent pipeline for the future.
Greater transparency leads to increased trust.
This in We are making a significant investment in our HR information systems turnprovides the solid foundations required for sustainable growth.
This will improve operational efficiency and reliability of data in Bymaking our financial, social, environmental and ethical data personnel and payroll administration and improve our ability to ensure transparent we can inspire trust which will lead to customers buying consistent, fair and transparent treatment of employees.
It will also more of our products, investors purchasing more of our stock, and facilitate better decision making in our resource planning, performance engaged employees working harder and smarter.
management, recruitment and talent development initiatives.
The Marshalls Anti-Bribery Code embodied within our organisation, We are planning our approach to gender pay gap reporting in since its adoption in 2011, was extended through the supply chain.
accordance with the emerging government regulations and definitions.
The Groups compliance and monitoring processes were also the The Group remains committed to supporting equal pay and to subject of an internal control audit by KPMG.
identifying and eradicating any discrimination on gender grounds.
Equality and diversity Carbon emissions disclosure The Group has policies that promote equality and diversity in the Marshalls Energy and Climate Change Policy confirms the Groups workforce as well as prohibiting discrimination in any form.
The Group commitment to reducing the energy and carbon impact of its business.
is developing a Code of Conduct, initially focusing on its supply chain, Our target is to reduce Group absolute CO e emissions in line with the which clearly states its commitment to these principles and requires 2 UK Governments targets 34 per cent by 2020 and 80 per cent by asimilar commitment from its business partners.
The progress indicates that reductions arein line with the 2020 and 2050 targets.
26 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT The Group complied with its legal obligation under the Governments The chart below right illustrates the Groups CO e intensity emissions 2 Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme by as aproportion of production output, including transport activities submitting its Annual Report and surrendering appropriate carbon between 2012 and 2016. allowances for the period April 2015 to March 2016 within the time A number of factors have contributed to the Groups energy limit imposed by the legislation.
The Group continues to be certified performance during the year including significant decreases in to the Carbon Trust Standard.
The Groups approach to the Energy carbonisation of the electricity grid supply, product mix, weather Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS legislation was to define its temperature impacting on the use of heating cooling fuel and energy management in compliance with the international standard energy management activities.
Diesel use is responsible for the majority for energy management ISO50001, gaining certification in November of the scope 1 emissions and during the year Marshalls increased 2015 and maintaining this through 2016.
The Group continues to itsLGVfleet by 17 per cent full-time equivalent vehicles to satisfy voluntarily disclose data to the Carbon Disclosure Project receiving customer requirements.
This has resulted in the reporting of previous aB rating for its 2016 submission.
This disclosure includes the wider scope 3 emissions into scope 1. carbon management performance over time and also provides an The Group reports that it is responsible for the GHG emissions insight for shareholders regarding the Groups energy, carbon and climate change impact management programme.
The CO emission using Belgium Government 2 Emissions data from Marshalls NV activities in 2016 was absolute Marshalls has a mandatory duty to report its annual greenhouse gas 654tonnes and intensity 12.42 kg per tonne production.
emissions GHG under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 and the Large and Medium-sized Marshalls aims to publish its environmental KPI performance for the financial year in a separate document, the Marshalls Environmental KPI Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
Marshalls uses The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting 2017 Report.
This will cover the energy performance in more detail, together with reporting of the environmental governance, policies, and Reporting Standard revised edition and the October 2016 Defra published CO e conversion factors to measure its GHG emissions.
management and key environmental impact areas such as waste, water 2 and packaging.
The Environmental KPI 2017 Report will also detail our The Group has conducted audits of its UK fugitive emissions and found work with internationally recognised expert bodies such as the Carbon these to be 0.57 per cent of the Group total emissions: accordingly Trust and the RSPB.
these are excluded from the report.
This section of the Annual Report has been audited by a qualified The chart below left illustrates the Groups UK absolute CO e 2 verifier on behalf of BSI.
On the basis of the work undertaken this emissions intonnes, including transport activities, between 2012 carbon statement is considered to be a fair reflection of the Groups and2016.
performance during 2016 and contains no misleading information.
co. uk EnvKPI2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 27 Tonnes CO e 2 kgs CO e per tonne production output 2 STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability continued Accident frequency and Health and safety severity rates per 1 million Marshalls remains committed to meeting the highest safety standards hours worked 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 for all its employees, reinforcing and developing its safety processes and All accidents 69.5 65.6 59.1 48.8 49.2 developing a competent workforce with a view to achieving long-term improvement gains, and this remains a key priority for the business.
All lost time accidents 14.0 12.2 7.2 5.1 5.6 Achievement of annual health and safety improvement targets is directly linked to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and All RIDDORs 6.1 3.6 3.3 1.6 2.3 senior management, as explained in the Remuneration Report on All days lost 134.5 114.6 80.7 45.8 38.0 pages 46 to 65.
Average UK Our Safety, Health and Incident Prevention SHIP teams, consisting headcount 2,252 2,055 2,132 2,237 2,253 of employee representatives and managers, are the cornerstone of the safety management system at site level and meet regularly to During 2016, the Group has continued to invest in health and safety support and develop our safety programme and objectives.
The awareness training through its Visible Felt Leadership initiative, Groups operating sites have been progressively implementing which is delivered to all managers and supervisory staff.
Integrated Management Registration systems accredited by the British Standards Institution incorporating accreditation to the Occupational Health and Safety Accreditation Standard OHSAS 18001:2007.
At the end of 2016 all UK operational sites within the Group held a BS OHSAS 18001:2007 registration.
The headline target for 2016 was to maintain days lost resulting from workplace incidents at a figure no higher than the 2015 actual result.
The actual results achieved were: 20 per cent reduction in days lost resulting from workplace incidents: 2 per cent reduction in all-incident frequency rate: 4 per cent increase in lost time incidents LTIs frequency rate: and 43 per cent increase in incidents reportable to the HSE under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations RIDDOR.
The primary target for 2017 will again be to achieve an accident rate for the year no higher than the baseline 2015 result.
The table opposite shows the KPIs used by the Group to monitor performance and progress against those KPIs over the last 5 years.
28 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
