% % % 8 2 2 7 4 3 26 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PEOPLE Our people bring our values to life.
Their talent, commitment to our customers and pride in M&S are key to our long-term growth.
A LIVING OUR VALUES DIVERSITY AND WELLBEING PLAN A We have built on last years Fit For The People are increasingly looking to work for This year we extended our Make Your Mark Future programme with a series of training organisations that give them the freedom youth employment scheme to our head initiatives designed to help employees to be themselves.
We have developed an offi ce and Castle Donington distribution live our values of Inspiration, Innovation, approach to Be Yourself in our induction centre, increasing the options available to Integrity and In Touch.
Last summer, our process, encouraging employees to young people.
Across the business, 1,400 top 160 managers took part in a leadership recognise peoples diff erences while people took their first steps into work thanks development programme called Fit to not being afraid to express their own.
The initiative looked at how we Our employees wellbeing is also crucial & Start scheme for people who face barriers can be more collaborative, agile and to us and we continue to invest in getting into work helped an additional entrepreneurial as an organisation.
We also programmes such as Dare to Care, an 1,400 people through work placements ran events for 750 line managers and 3,500 internal campaign focused around raising in our stores and distribution centres.
store managers in which they examined awareness of mental health.
We introduced Spark Something Good to how our values can drive high performance.
encourage our people to make a diff erence R The feedback from all the events was TRANSFORMING OUR BUSINESS in their local communities.
We received 50,000 allowed employees to coordinate their As we continue to transform our business, comments speci c to living the values in annual volunteer day in a collaborative we must ensure that the changes we make our annual Your Say survey they really way.
By taking part in a series of community are implemented and communicated to resonate with our employees.
projects in individual cities on the same employees eff ectively.
The robust processes day, employees mobilised as teams for we have in place around succession ENGAGED AND ENTREPRENEURIAL good causes.
In London, we transformed planning, change management and our 24 community projects over 24 hours.
The Our Your Say survey showed that employee dedicated Employee Communications team scheme will be rolled out to 24 cities across engagement levels remain high at 78%.
help us mitigate such risks from a people the UK and Ireland over two years we have We want to develop and celebrate the talent perspective.
Our Business Involvement already completed five cities: London, within M&S, and its only right that good Group BIG, M&Ss network of elected Manchester, Swansea, Edinburgh and Dublin.
Give Me Five, employee representatives, enables us to our initiative where employees pitch ideas inform, involve and consult with colleagues to senior managers, has given employees across our business on our future plans.
a sense of ownership and a number of the BIG gives colleagues the chance to voice pitched ideas have been implemented.
their opinions and ideas, get answers and The idea of Give Me Five itself came from have their views represented.
some of our store and offi ce colleagues keen to support our Fit for the Future drive to bring a more entrepreneurial spirit to M&S.
EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AS AT 2 APRIL 2016 Total employees Female 57,841 80,041 Male 22,200 Total senior managers Female 70 1.
All our people can in uence 3.
Our awards this year include 168 Male 98 Network events have seen change through BIG, which has The Times Top 50 Employers for a raft of high-pro le visitors 3,500 representatives from every Women, Training Journals Best deliver motivating speeches store and business area who Operational Programme for to our employees.
Guests this gather feedback and represent our store induction programme year have included Ruby Wax colleagues on the topics that are and, for the second year running, Total Board and Baroness Karren Brady.
BIGs the Princes Trust Young Achiever Female 5 13 agenda this year included the Award, which went to Stacey Fox Male 8 national living wage and Sparks.
Includes Marc Bolland and Martha Lane Fox who retired from the Board on 2 April 2016.
Refer to p33 for current Board diversity information.
