Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate Responsibility A renewed approach to Corporate Responsibility CR During 2016 the CR Committee reassessed its strategy to ensure it supports the Groups long-term growth and commercial objectives.
The Committee also considered its future approach against a backdrop of new and emerging core trends impacting our customers and employees.
The review included a survey of key stakeholders, which in turn helped us to develop an assessment of our CR priorities that we intend to focus on in the future, seeking to undertake activity above and beyond that of the required legal compliance.
Our priorities: Our goals: 1 We care about our customers wellbeing Food safety, health and safety, healthy options, responsible marketing 2 We invest in our people Health and safety, employee engagement, training and development 3 We partner with suppliers who share our values Ethical sourcing 4 We celebrate our local communities Charitable support, community involvement 5 We reduce our environmental impacts Waste segregation, water efficiency, CO emissions 2 Over the next year, targets are to be applied to each of the goals to drive future action in the business, encouraging improvements and demonstrating our commitment to our priority areas.
Vision and strategy Our approach to CR at Marstons is anchored in supporting long-term growth, commercial objectives and stakeholder requirements.
As a result, the CR vision, strategy and goals are aligned to the Groups ambition, purpose and ways of working: while aiming to focus attention on the results of our assessment and key priorities.
The CR priorities as aligned with Marstons strategic objectives are shown below: Strategic objectives CR goals Operating a high quality pub estate Health and safety, employee engagement, training and development, environmental impact.
Targeting pub growth: building pub-restaurants, Health and safety, ethical sourcing.
Premium pubs and further developing Franchise Increased investment in rooms Health and safety, ethical sourcing, training and development, environmental impact.
Offering the best consumer experience: quality, Food safety, responsible marketing of alcohol, ethical service, value and innovation sourcing, healthy options, employee engagement, training and development.
Leadership in the UK beer market Health and safety, responsible marketing of alcohol, employee engagement, training and development, charitable giving, community engagement, environmental impact.
Ensuring people are at the heart of our business Health and safety, employee engagement, training and development, charitable giving, community engagement.
31 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate Responsibility continued Bringing CR strategy to life Bringing CR strategy to life We care about our customers We invest in our people wellbeing Marstons puts people at the heart of everything it does we want our people to feel valued, to have a say in shaping the Providing quality assurance and a range of options is essential Group's future and to be happy at work.
We know that if our if Marstons is to attract and retain custom.
We want our people are happy our customers will have a better experience.
customers to enjoy the experience of visiting our pubs and to be The 2016 employee survey showed that Marstons people are assured that we follow stringent health and safety guidelines for both engaged with our strategy and plans, and enabled to their protection.
Marstons provides a range of new and fresh carry out their day-to-day duties effectively see our KPIs on menu choices that cater for the diversity of customers' dietary pages 18 to 19.
To increase employee engagement and to build preferences.
Our Generous George Little Adventurers menu on our employees' understanding and connection with our was voted best kids' menu at this years Menu Innovation & strategy, Marstons has launched a number of new employee Development Awards MIDAS for the second time.
communication channels, including The Place, our all-employee Other initiatives include: magazine and app, that recently won a national award from the Institute of Internal Communications.
offering wholemeal and Genius gluten free bread as an option for sandwiches.
Celebrating our Talent Marstons Chef Competition Our chefs are at the heart of our pub-restaurants and bars, working to reduce salt content in our products: no new lines playing a pivotal role in delighting our customers.
This year are launched unless they achieve 2017 salt targets.
we celebrated their outstanding skills at our annual Chef wherever a main meal is served with vegetables on our main Competition.
Working their way through a number of heats menus it provides at least one of your 5-a-day.
and seeing off fierce competition, our finalists pictured above Christmas menus include vegan choices.
demonstrated their culinary skills and creativity at River Cottage dairy-free options available on our Rotisserie and Grills HQ by producing a delicious array of dishes for our panel of children's menus.
This years winner was John Pate from the Brickworks in Accrington.
incorporating some of our NGCI menus into the main menu making them more accessible, rather than being a separate Building our Future Marstons Apprenticeship menu available on request.
Programme in practice the allergy app allows customers to filter dishes that contain an Will Cork-Dove has been working in a Sales and Service position allergen they wish to avoid.
at the Penny Hedge, Whitby since May 2015.
He was recruited into the role as an apprentice at 17 years old and completed 'Being good?
signs appear on various menus, giving his Hospitality Services Level 2 apprenticeship in August 2016. consumers the option to swap sides for healthier options.
He is now Trainee Shift Lead.
Support is provided throughout 500 600 calorie options are offered and highlighted without the apprenticeship programme by regional trainers.
With over compromising on taste!
12 months' experience in front of house operations, Will has turned his attention to learning about back of house with kitchen training underway.
Will has high ambitions to move into a supervisory role and eventually become a General Manager.
32 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Bringing CR strategy to life Bringing CR strategy to life We partner with suppliers We celebrate our local communities Community engagement is very high on Marstons agenda as who share our values our pubs are often at the heart of local communities.
Marstons Marstons Ways of Working are crucial to its success and we like supports communities in various ways, from high profile to collaborate with businesses who share similar values.
campaigns such as Help for Heroes, where our employees have Strong working relationships with our partners can lead to raised over 161k, to more local initiatives such as Give Back great things.
Our work with KK Fine Foods saw our spicy Thai Week, where our people get involved in community projects Edamame Bean Burger win the best meat-free vegetarian throughout the UK.
In 2016 we also became a founder patron product at this years British Frozen Food Federation Awards.
of The Way, a local community project, where young people The burger a tasty mix of carrot, red onion, edamame beans, go to have fun and develop their social skills through peer to choy sum, red jalapenos, radishes and Sriracha spices was peer encouragement.
created for our Autumn Winter 2015 Rotisserie and Grill menus.
With each menu change we are growing our vegetarian offering Bringing CR strategy to life and KK Fine Foods is known for its innovation and as a passionate creator of new dishes.
The development team are shown above.
We reduce our environmental impacts Marstons robust tendering process looks at company management, locations of production facilities, finances, codes Marstons takes its environmental responsibilities seriously, of ethics, and accreditations.
One of Marstons key suppliers, and is making good progress as the business develops and Leisure Bench, who make most of the furniture in our pubgrows.
Through educating and training employees in food waste restaurants and bars, provides annual certification from the management, we are reducing the amount sent to landfill.
Forestry Commission, along with supporting information, Marstons pub-restaurants and bars are refurbished with to ensure the wood sourced is ethically compliant.
Similarly, environmentally friendly lighting, modernised cooling facilities, Marstons pub clothing supplier provides evidence that its energy efficient fridges, and we provide advice and guidance on products are ethically produced and sourced.
the careful management of water in our pubs.
Environmental impact is a high priority when designing lodges.
We ensure that insulation levels are above the minimum required by building regulations.
Air source heat pumps and ventilation equipment is used to regulate bedroom temperatures using natural ventilation and room guests can adjust temperatures to suit their personal preference.
Wash facilities are sourced to minimise water usage.
We also have an estate-wide initiative to fit energy saving bulbs and passive infrared sensors that detect movement to optimise lighting usage.
