44 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Corporate responsibility We recognise our responsibility to shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community to conduct our operations in a safe, responsible and sustainable manner.
We believe that our approach to corporate responsibility creates value for Meggitt and our stakeholders.
Ithelps us to manage our businesses more efficiently, which in turn helps us to mitigate risks, reduce costs and support the communities in which we operate.
Policy We are committed to: Upholding sound corporate governance Conducting business relationships in an principles: ethical and responsible manner: Upholding our employees human rights: Minimising the environmental impact of products and processes and maintaining Encouraging dialogue with employees:  environmental Supporting the Ten Principles outlined in the management systems: United Nations Global Compact, relating to Acting as a responsible supplier and human rights, labour, the environment and encouraging our contractors and suppliers anti-corruption: todothe same: and Complying with the Modern Slavery Act 2015: Improving our financial, social and Supporting our local communities: environmental performance.
Action For our stakeholders this means: Complying with relevant national laws and Having effective risk identification and regulations: mitigation across all areas of the business: Providing a supportive, rewarding and safe Conducting independent audits in compliance working environment: areas: Delivering comprehensive training for Adopting robust internal and external employees: reporting and controls and ensuring financial probity: and Developing communication and collaboration tools: Supporting Business in the Community, the British business-community outreach charity, Maintaining modern, safe and efficient where members work together to tackle a operational practices: range of issues that are essential to building a Contributing to the social and economic fairer society and a more sustainable future.
enrichment of local communities, focusing particularly on activities related to education: STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 45 Governance and compliance In 2016, the Board approved a revised Corporate Responsibility Policy to include a statement on modern slavery.
The revised policy highlights our commitment to abstain from practices such as slavery, human trafficking, forced labour and child labour, and our commitment to take all reasonable measures to ensure that our suppliers and other entities acting on our behalf do not engage in practices that violate applicable laws and regulations relating to slavery, human trafficking, forced labour and child labour.
In February 2017, the Board approved a statement in compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 which is available on our website.
The Board also approved updates to the the Learning from robotic teens Ethics and Business Conduct Policy, Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy in Meggitt volunteers who mentor Tapping into tomorrows generation 2016.
These updated policies and all other teenagers in a nationwide robotics Mentoring not only helps MPC Oregon Board-approved policies are published on challenge are learning new lessons engineers to stretch their thinking our website.
It has also helped to The Board is responsible for improve the technology behind a new The first robot is set to arrive at implementation and performance of equipment tracking system at the site.
Meggitt Polymers & Composites, theCorporate Responsibility Policy.
Its designed to Gathering data about temperature Onaday-to-day basis, the Executive automate trimming on the sealing and running time on our presses is Director, Commercial & Corporate Affairs skirts for in-flight internet radomes, essential for optimising has functional responsibility for corporate anew product line that arrived with performance, says Crumrine.
responsibility CR matters on behalf of the 2015 advanced composites theChief Executive, including ethics and Working with the two FIRST teams acquisitions.
business conduct, trade compliance and showed us ways to create a wireless charity and community activity.
The Group To help ensure a pipeline of talented monitoring network which is much Operations Director has functional young engineers who can drive more accurate and efficient than the responsibility for health, safety and further advances in robotics, MPC wired counterpart we were looking environment on behalf of the Chief Oregon mentors two local high-school toinstall.
Divisional presidents teams, known as Hotwire Robotics Were also talking to the schools andsite directors are responsible for and the Nerd Herd.
Each year, they about the possibility of students implementing our policiesand battle against more than 3,000 helping us build and programme the procedures locally.
The Group is competitors in a robotics challenge 200 or so circuit boards we need to committed to providing the support run by For Inspiration and Recognition implement the system.
needed to ensure our businesses can of Science & Technology FIRST.
fulfil the requirementsoutlined in 3M, Boeing, Rockwell, UTC, Google The students get a very specific brief ourpolicies.
many of the countrys biggest from FIRST, detailing what the robot engineering businesses work with must do.
A team of about ten Meggitt FIRST.
And for good reason too: it Activity in 2016 volunteers from engineering, finance helps nurture the next generation of Environment and customer service help them engineers, its good for recruitment refine their thinking and crack the We are committed to achieving and and its good for our engineers problems that come up as they plan maintaining a culture that places a high toothe lessons we learn can often and build, explains Steve Fackler, priority on environmental performance be put into practice right away, MPC Oregons Director of Advanced and being proper stewards in the saysAndrew Barnes, one of MPC Technology.
Its the perfect way to communities and locations in which we Oregons engineering mentors on learn real-world technical and operate.
Our commitment is demonstrated theprogramme.
by our compliance record which shows no Hotwire Robotics finished 16th in fines for breaches of environmental In return, we get in front of some 2016 which was an amazing result.
regulations during 2016 after numerous ofthe best young talent in the local And a tough one to beat next year.
community and show them whats Butthats the challenge!
This achievement is due, in part, to our onoffer here, adds Engineering comprehensive rolling environmental Manager Trevor Crumrine.
And auditing programme which assessed 40% weget to learn from them too.
of our sites in 2016 for compliance with 46 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Corporate responsibility continued applicable regulatory requirements as included installation of energy efficient opportunities for waste reduction and well as compliance against industry lighting and occupancy sensors in both recycling.
We expect to see improvement bestpractice.
factories and offices and upgrading in waste performance as these plans compressors to more energy efficient areimplemented.
Beyond compliance, we require our systems.
We also continue to investigate manufacturing facilities to maintain GHG emissions sources of alternative energy and other anenvironmental management system Table 3 shows the GHG emissions data energy savings measures as these will be certified to the ISO 14001 international asper the Large and Medium-Sized crucial to achieving our 10-year target.
All of our manufacturing Companies and Groups Accounts and facilities, excluding the 2015 composites In terms of our performance for our other Reports Regulation 2013 the acquisitions, have obtained this five-year targets in Table 2, we exceeded Regulations.
The sites reporting GHG certification with those newly acquired our gas target.
We also beat our target data are the same as those consolidated businesses set to achieve certification for water consumption.
We saved a in the Groups financial statements.
bythe end of 2017. significant amount of water usage as we The composites acquisitions, which were expanded the use of closed loop recycling not included in the Groups reporting for Performance systems across the Group and we hope 2015, led to a small increase in overall Table 1 shows our performance for key tosee further gains in this area as this GHG emissions during 2016.
Excluding the environmental metrics and Table 2 shows technology is introduced to the acquisitions, absolute emissions declined our progress on achieving internally set composites acquisitions.
by 2% and we aim to build on the strong targets.
We did not achieve our electricity usage start to our 10-year reduction plan.
Our environmental performance in 2016 target, largely due to the energy intensive was good and we achieved decreases in carbon brake disk manufacturing process Saving energy allmetrics relative to revenue, as shown at MABS.
However, in 2016 we did achieve In 2016, we focused on lighting projects at inTable 1. a 2% reduction in electricity consumption.
our facilities such as upgrading current fixtures to LED or other more efficient The decrease in greenhouse gas GHG Waste produced during 2016 declined by technology and the installation of emissions meant we started our internally 14% relative to revenue.
However, we fell occupancy sensors.
Together, these set 10-year plan strongly, achieving a 5% short on our performance against our projects saved approximately 620 tonnes reduction relative to revenue against an waste recycled five-year target, and our of GHG emissions.
In addition, our MABS annual target of 2.5%.
We exceeded waste to landfill was also below target.
carbon refurbishment programme ourtarget through the continued Our manufacturing facilities are now contributed to a saving of approximately implementation of energy conservation required to develop waste minimisation 3,865 tonnes of GHG emissions.
These plans and identify and implement 1 Environmental metrics Table 1 2016 Change 2015 Utilities ElectricitygWh 213 201 MWh per m 120 -2% 122 Natural gasgWh 189 203 MWh per m 107 -13% 123 1 135,026 132,074 Greenhouse gas emissions CO e tonnes 2 Tonnes per m 76.1 -5% 80.2 Wastetonnes 11,224 12,098 Tonnes per m 6.32 -14% 7.34 Watercubic metres 705,279 711,385 Cubic metres per m -8% 397 432 1 Metrics per m are calculated using revenue converted at constant exchange rates.
Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated using conversion factors published in the 2015 Guidelines to DEFRA DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Emissions from overseas electricity are in CO only not CO e. 2 2 Targets Table 2 Target improvement Performance over performance Achieved as at Baseline year period financial years period 31 December 2016 GHG emissions tonnes per m 2015 To 31 December 2025 -25% -5% Electricity MWh per m 2011 To 31 December 2016 -15% 8% Gas MWh per m 2011 To 31 December 2016 -15% -18% Water consumption cubic metres per m 2011 To 31 December 2016 -10% -16% Waste to landfill as a % of total waste 2011 To 31 December 2016 -10% -5% Waste recycled as a % of total waste 2011 To 31 December 2016 10% 9% STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 47 1 GHG emissions data Table 3 2016 2015 Tonnes of Tonnes of CO e CO e 2 2 2 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 35,186 37,796 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 99,840 94,278 135,026 132,074 Intensity measurement: Emissions reported above, normalised to tonnes per m revenue 76.1 80.2 1 Global GHG emissions were calculated using conversion factors published in the Guidelines to DEFRA DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Emissions factors from overseas electricity are in CO only not CO e. 2 2 2 Does not include GHG emissions generated from Meggitt-owned and operated vehicles or refrigerant gases as these emissions are not material to the Groups emissions this is evaluated annually and continues to be the case.
REACH Compared to 2015, we achieved: Health and safety Compliance with the European Community As a Group, we strive to ensure our A reduction of 37% in the number of regulation on Registration, Evaluation, employees can lead safe, healthy and lost time cases reported and Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals productive lives by actively promoting associated incident rate: REACH is managed by the Groups REACH policies and programmes that help A reduction of 36% in the number of Steering Committee which continues to individuals safeguard themselves, their RIDDOR equivalent cases and address risks associated with the potential co-workers and visitors.
associated incident rate: obsolescence of chemicals used by In 2016, further health and safety A reduction of 69% in the number of aerospace manufacturers.
We continuously measures were integrated into DLA days absent due to injury: and track substances regulated under REACH including standardising and improving and work closely with our chemical A reduction of 48% in the number of how we report, action and close out near suppliers to ensure substances are OSHA recordable cases reported by miss and unsafe conditions identified by registered and will be approved for our US sites.
We continued implementation continued use, or identify suitable Similarly, our total reportable incidents of industry leading health and safety alternatives.
We participate in aerospace and associated incident rate decreased by practices by issuing new Meggitt Health industry trade groups in the US and Europe 43% and 46% respectively see Table 4. and Safety Procedures applicable to all that are involved in researching These incidents include all injuries sites on the topics of blood-borne replacements for hexavalent chromium globally that were required to be reported pathogen exposure control and managing and other substances targeted for directly to a regulatory authority.
change to ensure that health, safety and restrictions.
environmental impacts are assessed During 2016, 76% of our manufacturing prior to any operational change being Obsolescence facilities achieved Platinum level 35% in implemented.
Our Obsolescence Review Board 2015 in our Meggitt Safety Star award continues to identify and define a programme which recognises proactive We focus on preventative health and coordinated response to issues measures that sites have taken in respect safety measures, and have revised our potentially affecting our business of accident prevention.
Platinum is the incident investigation procedures to including conflict minerals, counterfeit highest level of achievement that can be include human factors analysis in any and fraudulent materials and chemical awarded within the programme.
reported near miss incidents and unsafe obsolescence.
Since 2015, we have rolled out Our comprehensive auditing programme customers and suppliers, we continue to Behaviour Based Safety training in 56% of also covers health and safety, and 40% of strive for the reduction and substitution of our manufacturing facilities, and more of our manufacturing facilities were materials and substances impacted by this training is planned for 2017. reviewed in 2016 for their compliance with regulatory developments, performing applicable regulatory requirements as These measures have resulted in material assessments, surveying our well as compliance against industry best significant improvement in all health and suppliers and undertaking reliability and practice standards, as required by our safety performance measures throughout qualification testing of alternatives.
Meggitt Health and Safety Procedures.
Reportable accidents and incidents Table 4 2016 Change 2015 1 Reportable accidents and incidents 23 -43% 40 2 Reportable accident incident rate 200 -46% 369 1 Reportable accidents and incidents are those directly reportable to a regulatory authority.
2 The accident incident rate is the number of reportable accidents incidents per 100,000 employees.
48 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Corporate responsibility continued Ethics and business conduct and trade compliance Our Ethics Programme is built on the foundation of honesty, integrity and respect for others.
We reaffirm those principles through our Group policies and regular training.
In addition, every employee receives a printed EthicsGuide, available in seven languages.
TheGuides, also availableonour website, are a resource containingourEthics and Business Conduct Policy, Code of Conduct andAnti-Corruption Policy.
Each Meggitt business site has a designated Ethics Coordinator who is available to assist employees who have questions or concerns.
If they prefer, we operate an Ethics Line which enables Training for the future employees to raise questions or concerns confidentially or anonymously, 24 hours a Turmoil in the energy sector has been a specification welding.
My ambition is day, 7 days a week from anywhere in the challenge for Heatric, Meggitts specialist to lead the field in this area one day.
Employees are entitled to a heat exchanger business.
But continued Colleague Ashley Whittaker finished thorough investigation and receive investment in the apprentice scheme is the apprentice scheme in 2016 and feedback whether the issues are helping to ready the business for growth joined Heatrics nine-person substantiated or not.
Earlier Through industry associations like the Racing the family stock car since the in the year, he was assigned an Aerospace, Defence, Security and Space age of 11, Natasha Churchill also liked 80,000 research project to trial a organisation ADS and the International to get her hands dirty with the repairs.
keyhole tungsten inert gas welding Forum on Business Ethical Conduct I got into welding very early, she system.
A months trial on site proved IFBEC, Meggitt has taken a leadership smiles.
Ashleys cost benefit and break-even position with others in our industries analysis was correct.
Her experience and enthusiasm when it comes to conducting business helped her win a place on the fourThis system can significantly reduce ethically and in compliance with laws year Heatric apprentice programme in lead time and consumables, resulting andregulations.
Heatric welding is some of the in a cost saving of up to 90%, he said.
wasinvited to join Transparency highest standard in the world because Internationals Business Integrity Forum.
In 2017, Ashley will be helping his our exchangers have to withstand such team expand business with existing We have a highly-developed trade extreme pressures up to 8700 psi customers, exploring new compliance programme, based on and temperatures -150 to 900C, opportunities in areas like nuclear guidelines issued by the regulatory sheexplains.
waste disposal and helping to authorities and the Nunn-Wolfowitz After six months in the training school, cross-sell with other Meggitt TaskForce Report of 2000 the apprentices are given starter projects businesses.
In terms of his own influentialreport on export compliance to build up their skills.
Assignments future, Ashley would like to begin a best practice.
During 2016, we on the factory floor start after a year.
part-time undergraduate degree in continuedto incorporate new regulatory Ive just finished modifying a travel engineering as other apprentices have requirements associated with the US cradle for one of our exchangers.
Nearly 50 young people Export Controls Reform ECR initiative, Theyre all bespoke and this one had a have joined the programme over the expanded implementation of our global specification change halfway through last 13 years.
trade management software solution manufacture.
It was only a short job andcontinued to implement our import The training and support here helped but I learned so much from the senior compliance programme at facilities in me tackle much bigger challenges welder as we went through it.
than I thought possible, he says.
So Looking ahead, Natasha is interested its very satisfying to now be running Local communities and in design for manufacture and how projects that are cutting costs and charitable donations advanced automation can improve developing growth for the future.
Working alongside Meggitt has a policy which underpins robots is the future for highourapproach to charitable giving and charitable sponsorship which was approved in 2014 and updated in 2016 with associated guidance provided.
This policy encourages our facilities to contribute to STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 49 Meggitt on the move We all know how important a healthy lifestyle is.
Sometimes, Some of the 2016 programme highlights include: however, it can be hard to find the time or the motivation to At the beginning of the year, our US employees were make wellness a priority.
Whats more, with so much health challenged to walk to the moon five times a distance of information available, it can be hard to separate fact from 1,179,275 miles.
They completed the challenge by July and fiction.
Thats where Vitality comes in.
bythe end of the year had walked a total of seven times to themoon.
Vitality is a wellness programme we offer to nearly 6,000 US employees to help them become healthy, stay healthy and receive Several US sites ran Get Moving challenges: an eight week rewards along the way.
By completing the Vitality Health Review, challenge put on by the local gym or wellness centre during employees find out what areas of their lifestyle they need to focus which time participants aimed to complete at least 150 on, and get a programme with health goals tailored just for them.
minutes of activity each week, by any meanswalking, aerobics class, swimming or whatever they fancy.
Vitality initially piloted in late 2012 and offers on-line courses to Our Kentucky facility held Biggest Loser contests, where help employees make informed choices about health and achieve employees vie to win the coveted title by losing the most body individual health goals.
Now well-embedded and into its 4th year, fat over the competition.
This years winners lost 13% and each US Meggitt site has Vitality Wellness Champions who 16% body fat respectively and their health improvements organise events from pot luck lunches and daily walks to Biggest continue long after the contest is over.
Loser contests and charity fun runs.
Securaplane ran a first-of-its-kind wellness expo where Employees across all of our US facilities are making positive employees toured a selection of health and wellbeing booths, changes to their lifestyles and reaping the rewards.
As well as at each of which they had to get a signature on their Health earning Vitality points as they exercise individually, or in a group Passport.
Vendors included acupuncture, elderly care, or club, employees can take part in ongoing education chiropractor, gym, doctors and dentists, and after the expo, programmessuch as heart health, maternity care and nutrition participants tucked into a complimentary healthy lunch.
diet, use preventive screening and study for certificates: Two California sites, North Hollywood and Orange County, cardiopulmonary resuscitation training CPR and First Aid.
offer weekend hiking clubs which not only boost fitness by The great news is that Vitality is making a difference to the health offering progressively challenging hikes around the local of our US employees.
Overall physical activity levels have risen hills and canyons, but also foster cross-functional our US employees are 150% more active than 2013, while blood communication and  as employees from cholesterol and stress levels are down, as is the overall risk to different departments get to know each other better.
Meggitt people are stepping up and completing more OECO facility in Oregon holds monthly Stair Crawls at a physical activities every month, resulting in more Platinum local railway station, where participants work in teams to members the highest level possible in the Vitality programme complete eight laps of the stations five flights of stairs.
As well as the physical benefits of weight loss Meggitts Piezo Technologies site supported Colorados Ride and body toning, employees testify to the many other benefits To Work Day, with almost 60% of their office joining in to cycle their healthier lifestyles entailincluding enhanced memory, distances of between 5 and 65 miles in the challenge.
concentration, energy and improved relationships, to name a few.
Many sites participate in Go Red walks to raise awareness of heart health.
50 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Corporate responsibility continued the communities in which our employees live and work, aiming to enhance the well-being of people living in our communities.
The policy also encourages facilities to undertake activities and fundraising to benefit the health and welfare of military personnel and to support education initiatives, scholarships and competitions in science, technology, engineering and mathematics subjects.
Each Meggitt business is responsible for agreeing and administering its own budget for charitable donations and sponsorships to have a positive impact onits local community or to support the sectors in which the business operates.
Yearly reports reveal the exceptional generosity of many employees who give Heres the challenge heres the training time and money to awide range of national and local initiatives.
Activity in Garret Mertzs first assignment at Meggitt Business School at the University of 2016 included: was managing a hydrogen reformer Oxford are excellent.
In addition, 25 senior Meggitt US businesses and employees prototype project as a 20-year old intern.
managers from Meggitt attended so there have donated over USD1m in the past It was a big stretch but I learned a lot was no shortage of mental firepower!
five years to the United Way, a USbecause the training dovetailed with the based non-profit organisation focusing opportunity.
Ive been here ten years now Maximise the potential, on resolving local community issues and with each new role, Ive always had at every level through partnerships with local the training I need to succeed.
The most useful lessons I learned on the schools, government agencies and programme were about motivation and At the beginning of 2016, I was given the voluntary and neighbourhood delegation: how to lead by instruction, opportunity to become General Manager associations.
Several Meggitt US how to empower others to tackle new at the Meggitt Control Systems MCS businesses hold annual United Way challenges and how to adapt my style to facility in San Diego, California.
It drives to encourage employee suit the situation.
specialises in all-electric fuel control engagement in local community valves and actuators and we acquired it at When it came to the workshop we ran activities and initiatives designed to the end of 2014. with the San Diego senior management to improve education, financial stability develop a common vision and strategy, I and health care for local families.
In Meggitt valued the businesss technology, would not have succeeded without having 2016 our businesses raised over culture and customer relationships and attended the programme.
I would have USD 180,000. the strategy has been to use the Meggitt run into many more difficulties without Production System to build on these MABS Akron sponsor the All-American being able to pick up the phone to strengths and transform the business into Soap Box Derby which has a newly colleagues on the course.
They had the a centre of excellence.
Twelve months created Meggitt Braking Zone at the experience I needed to lead later, we are well on the way: on-timeend of the world famous Derby Downs transformation at the facility.
delivery, for example, rose from the high track.
A safety video, presented by 80s at the start of 2016 to average 99% The programme has also been great Meggitt, is viewed by all drivers from July onwards.
personally, helping me think about how I participating in the many events at balance the demands of a young child Derby Downs throughout the year.
Within weeks of starting my new role, with a busy professional life.
It inspired Thesite is also a partner of the Derbys Iwas selected to go on the Oxford me to further my formal education and I Gravity Racing Challenge a science, Leadership Programme.
It gave me the am now enrolled on an MBA and I look technology, engineering and tools and contacts I needed to lead forward to taking on bigger challenges at mathematics themed event and three transformation.
Its a demanding Meggitt in the future.
cars have been provided to schools programme three week-long sessions who participate in the challenge during the year, extensive hours, live eachyear.
business assignments, workshops and several presentations to deliver.
But the For more than a decade, our Heatric instructor and facilitators from the Said facility has entered teams into the annual Poole Lions Swimathon event, where entrants swim laps for an hour, relay-style, to raise money for several local causes including two hospices, aschool and a community group for young adults with learning disabilities.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 51 In the 2016 event Heatric entered three teams, swimming a combined total of 186 laps, and were awarded the Harold Brown Cup for being the company who raised the most money at the event.
A group from Meggitts head office took part in a 100km bike ride to raise money for the Julias House childrens hospices in Dorset and Wiltshire.
The team comprising experienced riders, those who had never done an activity like this before and even one person on a folding Brompton commuter bike, ended up at the charitys new hospice in Devizes, Wiltshire.
The team raised over 15,000 to support the charity which is dedicated to helping lifelimited children and their families across the two counties.
A new generation of operations excellence Although our Policy allows a broader range of charitable activity, the Groups establish a standard assessment process, The three-year international Graduate priority is to support charities or coaching the leader of each DLA and Programme gives graduates tough, community organisations which focus sharing best practice.
We also helped real life assignments.
Graduate Ypatia onscience, technology, engineering and bring the total number of employees Limniati is learning operations mathematics education initiatives: participating in DLA to over 70%.
excellence the best possible way: by Meggitt has many links with the making it happen.
University of Sheffield and from 2016 New machining produces complex As vice-captain of the Greek U20 isthe sponsor of the annual prize for parts, faster and at low volumes basketball team I looked everywhere the best Science and Engineering One of the strategic goals at Fribourg forincremental improvement: warm-up Foundation Year student in the lastyear was to reduce inventory.
Our techniques, kinesio tape for boosting Automated Controls and Systems planning for every part process muscle elasticity, joint protection and Engineering department.
In 2016, corroborated what many of our operators video performance review.
We had tricks previous graduates attended the prize were saying: old turning and milling and tools for improving every aspect of giving to present the award to its machines were taking too long to set up individual and team performance.
Its very similar to my first assignment Meggitt supports several future Working with the plants manufacturing onMeggitts three-year international engineers identified through the director and two in-house experts, I was Graduate Programme.
Based at the Arkwright Scholarship, facilitating tasked with putting together the business Meggitt Sensing Systems facility in work experience, mentoring, providing case for an investment in new machinery.
Fribourg, Switzerland, my brief was to technical guidance on projects and By sourcing a second-hand machine, we deepen and widen the practice of DLA advice on university selection and estimated savings of more than the series of tiered meetings that kicks applications.
CHF400,000, inventory savings of more offeach working day.
than CHF80,000 and a return on We are now expanding our involvement DLA ensures that quality and delivery investment within two years.
Its now in encouraging students to take up issues are identified and addressed installed and producing parts.
engineering as a career through IETs immediatelyat the right level by the Engineering Horizon Bursaries, Talking to others on the programme, its right people.
As problems are solved, offering support to students who have clear that working closely with Meggitt employees gain more confidence that faced obstacles or challenges and leaders on critical strategic projects is their skills and experience are capable of require financial support as well as standard for this programmeits key to improving their teams performance: its work placements.
our rapid growth and development.
Ive their knowledge that shapes the tools and learned a lot about myself and about We continue to sponsor the Schools processes we need to succeed.
operations excellence and am looking Aerospace Challenge, which offers Observing that first-hand, was the best forward to the next chapter.
shortlisted 16-18 year olds the chance introduction to corporate change to experience what the aerospace management I could have had.
Working world has to offer in a five day Summer with site leadership, my task was to School at Cranfield University.
52 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Corporate responsibility continued Our employees Table 6 Equal opportunities % of females at Level 31 December 2016 Number of females Number of males The Group supports equal employment Board of Directors 20% 2 8 opportunities and opposes all forms of Group Leadership Team 15% 2 11 unlawful or unfair discrimination.
Senior executives 8% 23 252 It is Group policy to give full and fair All employees 28% 3,146 8,064 consideration to job applications from disabled people, to provide opportunities for their training, career development andpromotion and to continue wherever laws and regulations relating to slavery, The directors encourage employees to possible to employ staff who become human trafficking, forced labour and become shareholders to improve active disabled.
participation in, and commitment to, the Groups success.
This policy has been We require all Meggitt employees, Employee consultation pursued for all UK employees through reinforced through our ethics training The Group regards employee theShare Incentive Plan and the programme and its values, to treat all communication as a vital business Sharesave Scheme.
colleagues fairly and with respect.
Communication and recognise the value of diversity amongst consultation is carried out at facilities by Strategic report our employees.
Table 6 shows the number operations directors and other line of women employed at all levels of the This 2016 Strategic report on pages managers using a variety of formats workforce.
The Boards approach to 1to52 is hereby signed on behalf of including daily meetings on shop floors, diversity is discussed in the Nominations theBoard.
all-employee Town Hall meetings, team Committee report see pages 64 and 65. briefings and works councils.
We respect all employee relations regulations.
Human rights We confirm our commitment to the Corporate communications take a variety human rights of our employees in our of forms, including presentations from Corporate Responsibility Policy, which the Chief Executive via audio-visual weapply across all our businesses.
media, global web-enabled conferences, Stephen Young top-down strategy dissemination from the Our updated Policy includes a Chief Executive Chief Executive, publications such as the statementon slavery and human 27 February 2017 Meggitt Review and a variety of trafficking, committing to our abstention  newsletters.
from practices such as slavery, human Results presentations are disseminated trafficking, forced labour and child labour, across the Group, which enhance our and taking all reasonable measures to employees understanding of the financial ensure that our suppliers and other and economic factors affecting its entities acting on our behalf do not performance.
engage in practices or violate applicable 1 Analysis of employees Table 5 Employees by division Employees by length Employees by region of service years Number of employees Number of employees Number of employees 11,210 11,210 11,210 Aircraft Braking Systems 1,265 11% Less than 5 4,866 43% USA 5,920 53% Control Systems 1,853 17% Between 5 and 10 2,325 21% UK 2,699 24% Polymers & Composites 2,712 24% Between 10 and 15 1,293 12% Rest of Europe 1,503 13% Sensing Systems 3,224 29% Between 15 and 20 1,050 9% Rest of World 1,088 10% Equipment Group 1,662 15% Between 20 and 25 446 4% Cross-Group functions 494 4% Over 25 1,230 11% 1 As at 31 December 2016.
