Mer Merlin Enter lin Entertainments plc tainments plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 20 Accounts 201 16 6 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility - The Merlin Way MISSION WE ARE SUPERHEROES FOR PEOPLE FOR OUR PLANET Merlins Magic Wand Accessibility SEA LIFE and Sustainability and WILD LIFE the Environment Delivering memorable Providing memorable experiences to experiences and Protecting wildlife Operating the business disadvantaged environments that through targeted within a culture children across are accessible global campaigns of responsible the globe to all and activity sustainability WE ARE A GOOD CORPORATE CITIZEN Do it with Do it in the Do it Do it Right Team Merlin Community Responsibly Operating our business Recognised by Being a Force for Delivering our in accordance with employees, partners Good in every experiences in a robust governance and other stakeholders community in which safe, and socially standards and as a company that cares we operate conscious way practices 53 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility In 2016 our childrens charity Merlins Magic Wand MMW has continued to grow with Merlin teams in every attraction getting involved in creating magic.
MAGICAL DAYS OUT MERLIN'S MAGIC SPACES COMMUNITY OUTREACH Providing days out to over 86,000 Creating 15 exciting Merlins Making a difference to over 3,500 children and their families.
Magic Spaces, taking the total children in our local communities to 31 worldwide.
by taking the Magic to them in hospitals and hospices.
Excellent You will for giving my son never know how a day out away much we needed from hospital that day appointments 54 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility DURING THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER WE CELEBRATED FUN FESTIVAL!
TO FIND OUT MORE VISIT WWW.
ORG It is rare to have a good day, our day out was magical and we will never forget it 55 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility Accessibility Community Relations We aim to provide experiences and environments that are Our attractions continue to forge partnerships in their local accessible to all.
We want to provide industry leading facilities communities with local charities and other groups supporting and experiences.
This happens in many different ways, from hosting visits for foster children through to visiting local The cornerstones of our approach are: community centres or joining other local initiatives.
Guest Information We will provide clear, accurate, consistent and accessible information to enable visitors to make informed choices.
Accessible Environments We will make our environments as accessible as possible, continually improving our estate.
Team Engagement We will ensure employees have the tools and training to deliver memorable experiences to accessibility challenged guests.
We make no differentiation between able bodied and disabled persons in terms of recruitment, training and career progression.
We will make every effort to continue the employment and training of those persons who become disabled while Student Joanne Sibley meets the Duke of Cambridge employed by the Group.
A particular highlight this year was when Joanne Sibley, a student from Livability's Victoria Education Centre in Poole, Dorset, was invited to meet the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge at the Coca-Cola London Eye when we hosted a 'Heads Together' charity coalition for World Mental Health Day, focused on the importance of 'psychological and mental health first aid for all'.
Merlin's Magic Wand have been working with Victoria Education Centre for a number of years which has included a Merlin's Magic Spaces project.
Joanne has been very involved with the project and the ongoing relationship between MMW and Victoria School, so her enthusiasm and vibrant spirit made her the perfect person to hand over the bouquet to the Duchess of Cambridge during this important visit.
Received from a family that enjoyed time together at Alton Towers Resort 56 I cannot praise the staff highly enough for their enthusiasm and commitment to us.
Physically my son does not appear to have any abnormalities, but those with experience know how tricky Type 1 Diabetes can be to deal with.
Every single staff member we came across treated us and our son with the utmost respect.
Hidden disabilities can be hard to deal with, but you made our family, with our son and his older brother at the centre, feel so special.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility Marine and wildlife conservation Alongside this, the Trust donated over 115,000 to projects and Merlin promotes the protection of wildlife across the globe by campaigns that support wildlife and habitat across the world.
supporting projects and campaigns which make a real difference.
In doing this we leverage our reputation for the ethical and In 2017, the Trust will launch a major campaign and fund projects responsible care, preservation and conservation of animals that help to protect sea turtles, which are increasingly at danger and the marine environment.
from fishing bycatch and plastic pollution.
SEA LIFE WILD LIFE Merlin supports our official marine conservation charity partner, Chessington World of Adventures Resort in the UK, WILD LIFE the SEA LIFE Trust, dedicated to protecting our oceans and Sydney Zoo and WILD LIFE Hamilton Island in Australia, all have the amazing wildlife that calls them home.
We engage our staff a long standing commitment to animal breeding or managed across the SEA LIFE estate to support these activities - a great species programmes - at Chessington we saw three Asiatic example are our beach clean events where teams keep their Lion cubs arrive just in time for Christmas!
local beaches free of litter.
SEA LIFE staff across the world also helped support the Trust by running, walking, rowing and pedalling 10,328 miles to raise funds - thats like crossing both the Indian and Atlantic Oceans!
In 2016 the Trust campaigned on marine protection in three territories: In the USA, we campaigned to support President Obamas creation of two marine protected areas including his expansion of the worlds biggest marine protected area in Hawaii.
In the UK, and working together with the Marine Conservation Society, we have collected more than 53,000 signatures so far in our efforts to protect 34 priority coastal areas.
In Australia, we gathered over 10% of the total submissions to the Australian Government in support of 26 marine protected areas.
Asiatic lion cubs at Chessington World of Adventures Resort Examples of SEA LIFE Trust campaigns throughout the year 57 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainability and the environment Renewable solar thermal for hot water energy at SEA LIFE Strategy and governance Benalmadena, Spain Merlin manages resources responsibly.
We recognise that our operations impact upon the environment and that effective management of this impact is essential for sustainable business success.
We are committed to regular monitoring, auditing and review of our activities and identifying opportunities for sustainable environmental improvement, in line with our strategic business goals and in order to minimise the potentially harmful effects of such activity.
Ultimate responsibility for this strategy rests with the CEO, with management teams responsible for implementation at local and regional levels.
More specific details can be found in our environmental policy, available on our website.
Environment and energy management We have specific budgets set aside to test and implement environmentally focused initiatives and an annual Environmental Award to motivate our sites in this area.
We have developed groupwide sustainability management and carbon reduction plans and a number of water and waste management initiatives to encourage sites in this area and build on examples of best practice across the Group, through 2017 and beyond.
We participate in the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC energy efficiency scheme, EU Energy Efficiency Directives and other applicable environmental regulations globally.
Some examples of our numerous environmental initiatives in the year are: Lighting optimisation at Sydney Harbour cluster, Australia.
Pump optimisation at SEA LIFE Blackpool, UK.
Solar energy at Gardaland Hotel, Italy.
Benches made from recycled plastic bottles Solar thermal at SEA LIFE Benalmadena, Spain.
at LEGOLAND Florida Resort, USA We Care about our Planet event Our attractions participated in our annual planet event to support Merlins commitment to sustainability, in line with our We Care core value.
There were a wide range of activities including: W e sent climate change information materials to 1,000 students through THORPE PARKs partner schools.
W e engaged on climate change issues with 4,000 guests at our SEA LIFE at LEGOLAND California Resort.
We planted trees at THORPE PARK.
SEA LIFE Timmendorf er Strand, Germany ditched their voucher delivery car and replaced it with a bicycle!
Chang Feng Ocean W orld, Shanghai engaged over 40 students at a sleepover event on climate change.
The team in SEA LIFE Timmendorfer Strand in Germany replacing their delivery car with a bicycle 58 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility Greenhouse gas GHG reporting Good Corporate Citizen The Company is required to report each year on its carbon Merlin always seeks to operate ethically and to be a Good dioxide emissions which are set out in the table below.
Our approach in this area is based on four pillars that underpin our Force for Good initiatives where we The reported emissions intensity is affected by the impact of feel Merlin is uniquely placed to make a difference.
foreign exchange movements on the revenue figure that forms the intensity baseline.
This has contributed 6.6% to the reported Do it with Team Merlin - the Team Merlin section of this report reduction of 15.8% and accordingly the reduction on a constant provides more details on our employees, our extraordinary team currency basis would be 9.2%.
Furthermore, carbon emission whose levels of engagement and enthusiasm help make Merlin factors used in 2016 were lower compared to 2015 due to special.
We look to harness this enthusiasm to demonstrate and a reduction in the use of coal for energy generation.
This reinforce our core values, especially how We Care, across our contributes 5.4% to the reported reduction.
Our underlying workforce and more widely with our business partners and carbon emission intensity reduction was therefore 3.8%, in other stakeholders of the business.
excess of our annual target which is to reduce our carbon emission intensity by 2% year on year.
Regarding Human Rights, our Policy is guided by the International Labour Organisation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work together with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
It is set out in full on our website.
Report boundaries Financial control all facilities under the Groups direct financial control have been included.
Do it in the community - our businesses sit at the heart of communities around the world and our teams are proud to be Consistency with This report covers the twelve month part of and to support those communities.
This demonstrates financial statements period from 1 December 2015 to to all of Merlins stakeholders the strength of the Companys 30 November 2016 in comparison to our financial year of January to We Care core value.
This can be seen from our Merlins Magic December 2016.
Wand activities, other community outreach initiatives, or even how our teams help clean beaches to support the SEA LIFE Trust!
Methodology The WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Do it responsibly - our Health, Safety and Security HSS Reporting Standard Revised Edition applying emissions factors from IEA CO Committee report on pages 70 to 75 sets out how we oversee 2 from fuel combustion 2016 edition and and manage HSS risks to ensure we operate our businesses with emissions factors from DEFRA 2016. a constant focus on keeping our guests, employees and other visitors safe and secure.
Intensity ratio Emissions per 1 million of revenue Scope 1 19,270 tonnes of CO equivalent We also believe there is a strong social conscience at the heart 2 2015: 18,980 tonnes of Merlin that can be seen in areas such as our ethical animal husbandry activities and our approach to procurement.
We have Scope 2 116,814 tonnes of CO equivalent 2 a responsibility to the workers in our supply chain and seek to Localised Based 2015: 123,277 tonnes ensure our products are made in an appropriate environment Scope 2 112,381 tonnes of CO equivalent and the products we source are produced in accordance with 2 Market Based 2015: 120,985 tonnes international laws and legislation.
More details in this area are available on our website.
Group Gross 131,651 tonnes of CO equivalent 2 Emissions 2015: 139,965 tonnes Do it right - Merlin has robust governance standards and Intensity baseline 1,428 million 2015: 1,278 million practices that extend throughout the business.
This starts revenue at the top with an experienced Board that is structured in line with best practice and supported by appropriately rigorous Emissions 92 tonnes of CO equivalent per 2 Board Committees.
It then extends to how we identify and intensity 1 million of revenue 2015: 110 tonnes manage the principal risks that could affect our business as set out on pages 47 to 52.
Table notes: Scope 1 refers to direct emissions natural gas, LPG, heating oil, refrigerants, diesel, petrol.
Our full policies in specific areas and further guidance on our Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions purchased electricity, purchased heat and steam.
approach, together with answers to frequently asked questions, Scope 2 market based includes REGOs for our German Midway operations.
Our annual carbon reduction target is measured based on market based conditions.
can be found on our website www.
