ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY engaging with our colleagues... Our colleagues We also run our annual Voice of the Our colleagues are our culture and they are Colleague engagement survey, which the people who create our FANS.
Being a over 90% of colleagues responded to in great employer and hiring and developing 2016.
The outputs of the survey, including fantastic people is core to who we are and sophisticated text analytics, are used helps Metro Bank stand apart from the rest.
to inform continuous improvements in every aspect of our colleagues For this reason, we are extremely proud experiences.
We also benchmark our that our CEO, Craig Donaldson, was scores against leading companies.
Glassdoors most highly rated UK CEO for 2016, with a 99% approval rating in its The headlines from our 2016 survey were: Glassdoor Employees Choice Awards.
97% of our people understand how their Our Chief People Officer, Danielle role contributes to the overall success of Harmer, was ranked #30 among 2016 Metro Bank: Most Influential HR Practitioners by HR, as over 94% of colleagues feel encouraged well as being named in the 2016 Leading to bump up escalate issues: 50 Ally Executives by OUTstanding.
94% of colleagues think that Metro Bank is a great place to work: Metro Bank employs c. 2,500 permanent more than 91% of our people colleagues.
Over the year we have recommend Metro Banks products and created over 500 new roles, and weve services to their friends and family: promoted over 500 colleagues.
We focus Metro Bank actively fosters two-way over 87% believe there are opportunities all our colleagues on creating FANS communication with colleagues in for career progression and promotion: and building Metro Bank for the long a number of forums, from our social and term, by hiring for attitude and training media platform, Yammer, to the 87% would recommend Metro Bank as for skill, aligning our people to a simple regular Revolution Updates, held an employer to their friends and family.
purpose and making our colleagues face-to-face between the leaders and owners through our share schemes.
colleagues from across the business.
We are also committed to hiring apprentices across the Bank.
To date, we have hired 52 apprentices and plan to bring in a further 30 apprentices this year.
28 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC Culture and diversity Gender representation Case study We value people from all backgrounds, Gender mix as at 31 December 2016: and have an inclusive approach that Directors reporting to CEO Executive MR, MRS AND NOW MX celebrates diversity.
Our colleague base Leadership Team : 56% male 44% female.
is representative of the communities we Senior managers reporting to Executive serve.
We know that our inclusive culture Leadership Team Executive : 68% helps us to attract, retain and develop male 32% female.
fantastic colleagues and encourages Total colleagues: 57% male 43% female.
them to bring their whole selves to work.
We are also proud that our Black, Asian & Minority Ethnic BAME mix is representative of the communities we work in, with our BAME colleagues represented throughout the Bank.
In November, we Asian British 23.06% Asian Other 6.11% were the first high Black British 8.97% street bank to give Black Other 2.33% Mixed British 2.25% colleagues and Mixed Other 1.87% customers who do White British 39.60% White Irish 0.50% not identify with a White Other 8.67% specific gender the Undisclosed 6.64% option to choose Mx as a title.
We also introduced the choice of non-binary as a gender.
This simple change was an opportunity to drive forward equality and take an active stance on an issue that is highly personal to a number of our FANS.
Our no stupid bank rules approach meant Metro Bank was able to remove a barrier that had left some colleagues and customers feeling alienated and unrecognised.
29 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED... and the communities we serve Our communities Throughout 2016 our colleagues took Our impact on the environment We are an active member of the part in a number of events and moneyIt is our responsibility to manage our communities we serve and during 2016 we raising initiatives.
Every colleague at Metro environmental footprint and reduce hosted more than 2,000 local events, from Bank is given a day a year to support our impact where possible.
business networking and taking Metro community and charity causes that Bank into businesses, through to financial are important to them, through Metro Greenhouse gas GHG mandatory education workshops, seasonal activities Banks Days to Amaze.
Days to Amaze in disclosure like pumpkin carving and Christmas crafts 2016 ranged from school career days We have reported on our emissions for kids, and store Grand Openings.
to charity car washes and abseiling.
We in line with the requirements of the also raised 40,000 for The Princes Companies Act 2006 Strategic and We continue to partner with Battersea Trust via the Million Makers initiative.
Dogs and Cats Home and childrens charity Place2Be.
Place2Be helps children and We continue our relationship with Fulham Summary table of GHG emissions for 2016 young people in primary and secondary Football Club, as its community banking Tonnes schools to build mental health resilience, partner.
The partnership allows us to offer a GHG emissions CO e 2 and underlines Metro Banks commitment number of our customers the opportunity Scope 1 emissions 1,160 to the wellbeing of children and young for their children to join a specialist football Scope 2 emissions 5,044 people in the UK.
Both charities, along with skills programme with Fulham FC coaches Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Alzheimers Research UK, receive customer and to see a game with their family.
emissions 6,204 donations via our Magic Money Machines.
Number of FTE at 31 December 2016 2,417 Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions perFTE 2.57 30 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC This is our first year of reporting, which Where properties are covered by Metro Case study also forms our baseline year, running Banks consolidated financial statements in conjunction with our financial year, but are leased to tenants who are 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. invoiced for utilities, these emissions are ITS ALL ABOUT not included in the GHG calculations.
THE MONEY Metro Bank has chosen operational For properties where Metro Bank is the control as our consolidation approach tenant, the landlords of these properties and our boundary includes all provide Metro Bank with utility bills which entities and facilities either owned are included in our emissions reporting.
or under our operational control.
Scope 1 covers direct combustion of The methodology used to calculate fuels, predominantly mains gas, fuel our CO equivalent emissions is the use within Company-owned vehicles 2 operational control approach on reporting and hire cars, as well as refrigerant use boundaries as well as utilising the carbon and associated fugitive emissions.
emissions methodology as defined by the World Resources Institute World Business Scope 2 covers the emissions from Metro Bank is Council for Sustainable Development electricity purchased for own use.
WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol passionate about the GHG : A Corporate Accounting and This report was approved by the Board and communities we serve Reporting Standard, Revised Edition.
was signed on its behalf by: Craig Donaldson We established Money Zone in Chief Executive Officer 2011, an education programme 2 March 2017 for children and young people that introduces them to financial skills and helps them understand how money, saving and banking work.
In 2016, we hosted over 800 sessions, reaching over 24,000 young people.
Aimed at students in Years 4 and 5 Key Stage 2 our colleagues deliver the programme over four sessions split between the classroom and our stores.
With a full range of resources, notes and activities, it has proven a valuable support for teachers in educating their pupils in this important area of finance.
Becoming a Money Zone Prefect is a highlight for colleagues and a great opportunity to share our culture.
This engaging approach has led to a growing cohort of young people who are financially literate and prepared for their financial future: and is just another way Metro Bank works at the heart of every community it serves.
31 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
