g n i n r a e l p u e v i g A r t e e v a e m N t h a t s d i v t e u r s o s s b e e a r g e o t Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate social responsibility is not just an item on our to-do list.
At PageGroup its an inherent part of our culture and our business.
We are proud to continue our commitments to our stakeholders, to: Our people Our candidates The communities Society at large Our clients in which Our suppliers we operate Our shareholders Workplace Marketplace Governance Community Environment Contribute positively to the Ensure we have the highest Make PageGroup a great Minimise and mitigate our communities in which we ethical standards place to work environmental footprint operate Maintain the highest Value our people Provide responsible, standards of corporate global citizenship governance It is in our DNA to focus on people, modules, the ability to request and track constantly looking for ways to improve training, and self-help materials.
and that begins with our employees.
Rewards and health made fun Passionate about progress Other initiatives introduced during the year Our organic business model promotes include our performance management from within, based on merit the majority toolbox which drives an improved, of our Executive Board are proud to consistent way of managing and have started their life at PageGroup as rewarding the talent within our business: consultants, including CEO Steve Ingham.
the introduction of flexible benefits: and Our team-based culture and reward initiatives to introduce new ways of working system drives collaborative behaviours more flexibly.
which give the best possible outcome for Many of the initiatives helping to refine both clients and candidates.
our Employee Value Proposition EVP Career development is transparent and have come from employee feedback.
We Our People meritocratic, and includes opportunities to constantly listen to our people in a variety make international moves.
During 2016, of ways, including one to one discussions, PageGroup is all about we made over 1,400 promotions and saw team and department meetings, consultant people.
The people nearly 100 international moves.
forums, and our global Have Your Say who work here, the engagement survey.
Our last survey saw a companies we do business with, the Never give up learning global participation rate of 77% with 81% candidates whose lives we change positive engagement excellent results for for the better on a daily basis, and the In 2016, we enhanced our already a new survey in a global business such as communities and individuals we help as we industry-renowned training and ours.
Our next survey takes place in the give back to others.
development framework by starting the second half of 2017. roll-out of a new learning management system which includes online learning PageGroup Annual Report 2016 19 a r n p o r i u s o s y a P s P o r m o e u t d h i n t n o g u f b g i a e v c d e k a m h t l a e h d n a s d r a w e R Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information A team thats diverse A diverse team brings different perspectives and insight to our Global internal mentoring programme business, generating creativity, problemOver 200 taking part in the UK solving capability and sustainability that wouldnt otherwise be possible.
We Global Campaign want our people to be able to bring International Womens The ability to talk honestly about their true selves to work so that they Day feel comfortable and perform to the difficulties, frustrations and areas best of their ability.
Thats good for them of concern within ones role and good for our organisation.
We will continue to attract good people and retain them for longer, and we will have Signed up to the the best possible understanding of our Its been a very positive Think Act Report equally diverse clients and candidates.
development retention initiative campaign OpenPage underpins our commitment to inclusivity and diversity.
It encompasses a broad range of activities, active networks using our internal communication channels and memberships.
Our aim is to continue globalising our initiatives in a way that works at a local level, and to celebrate Stonewall global diversity champion Celebrated LGBT Pride the positive impact they have on our month in June, sharing Work equality index since 2015 business.
real life stories and Acceptance promoting acceptance In line with our commitment to listening without exception without exception to our people and encouraging open and honest communication, we have an independently hosted whistleblowing facility for our employees to easily and anonymously report any perceived wrong-doing.
For more information see the Audit Committee Report on page 52 in the Corporate Governance section of this Report.
We had no reportable High maternity return rates 100% in Signed the Working Forward pledge to incidents in 2016. some key countries including Austria, support pregnant women and new mums Germany, North America, Poland, Portugal Gender diversity and Spain Family days France, UK, Singapore, % % Japan, Brazil At 31 December 2016 Pre and post maternity Board Directors 5 62 3 38 coaching programmes Parenting seminars Senior 293 81 70 19 Management Total employees 2,867 47 3,232 53 Ability@Page At 31 December 2015 Board Directors 5 71 2 29 Launched Ability@Page July 2016 Senior Mental health champions appointed 247 79 66 21 Management First recruitment company to sign the Time to Change Pledge Total employees 2,813 48 3,022 52 PageGroup Annual Report 2016 20 Corporate Social Responsibility The communities in which we operate Giving back to others is part of our culture.
We live and work in the communities we serve, and we encourage our people to be proactive in their charitable support of those communities.
All areas of the organisation are involved, from the CEO running in fund-raising triathlons and serving on the Board Monaco No Finish Line helping of Great Ormond Street Hospital, to disadvantaged and sick children holding recruitment advice workshops for Germany donating work clothing immigrants in Australia, carrying out suit drives helping unemployed people back to work in Germany, and visiting schools to provide CV, career and interviewing advice in the UK.
We encourage our people to take a volunteer day annually when they can use their time to support good causes.
Often those efforts are co-ordinated so that whole teams are contributing.
In the UK, PageGroup also promotes a payroll-based donation scheme which the Company then matches.
China become reading partners to children with leukaemia and donate We share and celebrate our activities money to purchase new story books through our internal communication channels, fostering creativity and sharing New Zealand Ronald McDonald ideas across all our regions.
Charities wrapped presents for and spent time with patients and families PageTalent Schools programme Singapore Yellow Ribbon Project UK Fundraising event for Teenage Cancer Trust Over 2,500 students interviewed Malaysia Sanctuary Care Centre High New York LLS Light the Night event Tea for Underprivileged Children PageGroup Annual Report 2016 21 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information the opportunity to meet our regional gas emissions.
See page 17 for GHG Candidates leadership teams.
reporting for 2016. clients suppliers Highest standards of corporate We continue to look at ways to mitigate shareholders governance our impact, and activities during the last year included: At PageGroup we believe high standards Highest ethical standards Putting in place Skype for of governance underpin sustainable Business, increasing our use of PageGroup is a leading global recruiter, performance.
The Board is collectively video conferencing and helping to with strong brands and a reputation for responsible for the Groups financial minimise air and car travel: integrity.
We continue to reinforce that and operational performance as well as position by actively seeking ways to promoting the success of the business.
Making environmental criteria as improve.
The Board fulfils its responsibilities by a key consideration in decision directing and supervising the Companys making when leasing new offices, In our daily operations, we are strategy and policies.
seeking energy efficient premises constantly aware of our responsibilities where landlords are able to provide to both our clients and our candidates.
The Corporate Governance section us with supporting data.
For Confidentiality and sensitivity are at the of this report sets out details of the example, during 2016 we relocated core of all our dealings with them.
activities undertaken by the Board and from the Chrysler building in New its Standing Committees during 2016.
We expect the same high standards York to a more efficient building from our suppliers and our supplier code with a fit-out including remote Society at large of conduct is now an integral part of all controlled lighting and low energy our procurement activities.
During 2016 As a service based air conditioning equipment: and we started the process of formalising organisation, our In the UK, replacing legacy print and our modern slavery policy, and our environmental impact copy devices with new machines commitment to that work continues.
is indirect predominantly energy which are energy efficient, utilising consumption and business travel but we secure release and default doubleWe constantly review communication take our responsibilities seriously and our sided functions.
This has resulted and engagement with our shareholders, CEO is the sponsor of our environmental in 50% reduction in CO2 emissions and will continue to hold our successful policy.
We have processes in place to and over 60% reduction in the use investor relations events which give monitor and report on our green house of paper.
Public recognition during the year included: Attained Proud to be Clear Assured Status Top Employer Europe Highly commended for Global Belgium | France | Germany | Spain Diversity 2016 ENEI Awards Switzerland Shortlisted for Head of Diversity European Diversity Awards Best & Brightest Companies to work for in the Nation 2016 winner USA Excellent Employer award International Recruiter of the year Australasia ICT Recruiter of the year 2016 Netherlands Stonewall Global Diversity Champion Highly commended for Global Mobility of the Year Small Program and Best Redesign of Global Mobility Strategy Asia Recruitment Grand Winner Agency 2016 PageGroup Annual Report 2016 22
