Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate social responsibility During the 12 months to 30 April 2016, Micro Focus Micro Focus continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good Index, the responsible investment index calculated by global index provider Corporate social responsibility CSR programme FTSE Group.
hasfocused on expanding existing CSR initiatives toaddress the additional scale of operations arising Micro Focus has applied for Carbon Trust Standard re-certification fromthe acquisition of TAG.
TAG was approximately as a result of continued progress to reduce environmental emissions three times larger than Micro Focus in terms of and as partof an on-going commitment to the Carbon Trust.
If the re-certification is successful this will be for the third year in succession.
employee numbers and more than twice as large in termsof revenues generated on an annual basis.
Outlined below is the CSR progress that Micro Focus has made inthe year ended 30 April 2016 across the four focus areas.
CSR activities are monitored and planned in four key areas: the Environment, Charity and Community Support, the Marketplace CSR progress in the year ended 30 April 2016 andSuppliers, and Employees and Ethics.
The Corporate Environment Responsibility Policy can be found on the Micro Focus website This financial year is the first to incorporate environmental reporting www.
Micro Focus is that relates to the enlarged operations resulting from the acquisition committed to complying with relevant CSR legislation across of TAG, an organization that, historically, did not collect the data itsglobal operations and strives to achieve standards over required for environmental disclosure.
Micro Focus products and services help customers to reduce their TAGs operations were structurally merged with those of carbon footprint and adopt carbon friendly IT strategies by enabling MicroFocus with effect from 1 May 2015, five months after the greater efficiency and longer life from existing technology and acquisition completed.
As a result of this timing, a priority area for equipment.
In turn, Micro Focus continues to develop its own the CSR team during FY16 has been to understand and integrate policies to record, monitor and achieve improvements in its own any CSRactivities already underway at TAG, adopting best practice carbon footprint.
Research into TAG CSR activities quicklyrevealed that, as a privately owned organization, TAG Micro Focus energy conservation is focused on energy efficiencies hadno CSR activities of any scale, and any existing activities were to drive down total energy consumption.
Consequently, the CSR team has reviewed the reducing energy consumption levels is underlined within the Group suitability of the Micro Focus CSR programme to, where possible, by sharing data and seeking employee guidance on how to reduce expand activities across the enlarged Group.
For example, TAG had our consumption within the boundaries of our operational control.
no environmental reporting requirements or tools to monitor and For example, all staff are encouraged to turn off all electrical measure energy consumption.
We are now working toimplement equipment at weekends and over the holiday periods a scheme the same systems and processes that Micro Focus hasbeen using which has been adopted worldwide.
In the last reporting year inthis area to have these operational across the entire organization.
weextended our partnership with the Carbon Trust and entered In FY16, we targeted reducing our energy consumption wherever into the UK Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS as early possible across the entire property estate and staff will once again adopters to ensure we maximize the benefits that an ESOS Audit be targeted to reduce emissions.
The objective is to have as many can produce.
We used the audit findings in our energy roadmap systems and measures in place to enable year-on-year comparisons fordriving down our carbon output during the 12 months to for the FY17 reporting year.
OtherCSR areas such as Charity & 30April 2016, achieving a9% reduction in a single location.
Community Support, and Employees & Ethics are being similarly expanded to address ourincreased organizational scale.
Key points for the 12 months to 30 April 2016: During the year ended 30 April 2016 the CSR committee met Recognition of Micro Focus continued success in reducing threetimes to agree priorities and progress activities and the CSR environmental emissions, resulting in an application for programme was reviewed at two board meetings during the year.
re-certification of the Carbon Trust Standard for a third Karen Slatford, the senior independent non-executive director, is consecutive period, following two successful applications responsible at board level for CSR and also chairs CSR committee previously: meetings.
Tom Virden, a non-executive director, also participates inthe CSR committee to provide additional board level input.
Following an ESOS audit, the findings have been integrated intoMicro Focus energy roadmap, for example prompting an Micro Focus products can help customers to reduce their IT carbon upgrade to the Newbury headquarters Building Management footprint and these benefits feature in conversations with existing System to help achieve corporate climate optimization targets customers, prospects, partners and suppliers.
Employees regularly asa result of enhanced controls and zoning: participate in CSR initiatives and internal communications regularly feature CSR topics.
Seventh year of commitment to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, underlining our commitment to further promote and manage emission reductions across global facilities: 39 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate social responsibility continued Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reported to CDP: Processes continue to be developed to measure elements of our global Scope 3 emissions and once our expense system migration has completed, we will be able to capture and report this data CDP scores have improved year-on-year since joining in 2009. going forward.
The acquisition of TAG in the 2015 financial year, Inthis reporting period Micro Focus will report a reduction in asanticipated, led to increased business travel and this trend year-on-year emissions within this years CDP submission, and hascontinued to support the integration of new operations.
Micro Focus response has been extended to include Supply Chain and Water measures: This section includes Micro Focus mandatory reporting of GGEpursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report On-going commitment to promote electronic product andDirectors Report Regulations 2013. distributionhas translated into 98.2% of all distribution electronically, with only 1.8% delivered to customers via Reporting year physicaldistribution ofproducts: The Green House Gas GHG reporting year is the same as Micro Focus fiscal year being 1 May 2015 to 30 April 2016 to align with Continued programme of positive global procurement in Financial Reporting and the relevant CDP Reporting timeframe.
sourcing, replacing and refurbishing facility energy systems inaccordance with energy efficiency standards EN656 : Organizational boundary and responsibility In accordance with the definitional requirements of the Further improvements across all locations either by moving regulations, in respect of emissions for which Micro Focus is tomore modern and efficient office environments or by responsible, emissions data is reported using an Operational improving the assets already deployed.
Part of Micro Focus Controlapproach to define the Organizational Boundary.
decision making process when sourcing locations is to identify LEED ratings wherever possible.
In recent years four office All material emission sources over which Micro Focus deems to relocations have been from buildings with no LEED rating haveoperational control are in scope.
These sources are defined tositeswith Silver, Gold and Platinum ratings: asthe purchase of electricity, heat, steam or cooling for the operation of facilities and the combustion of fuel for that operation Continued landlord performance monitoring in all locations offacilities.
Processes are being established to track other sources where Micro Focus operations are sited in multi-tenant premises: ofemissions such as commercial flights for business travel, which isnotpresently covered in this data.
Further work has been undertaken to continue the consolidationof our data-centre power optimization thereby Methodology improving efficiencies and reducing cost and consumption, The methodology used to calculate emissions is based on the including the reduction of the quantity of dedicated server mostcurrent set of regulations published by the Department environments across the wider Group to significantly forEnvironment and Rural Affairs DEFRA relating to relevant lessenthefootprint impact: reporting periods.
For consistency, in this reporting period our emissions have been calculated solely using DEFRAs conversion During this reporting year Micro Focus has continued to roll tables published ontheir website, rather than as in previous periods outrecycling initiatives across the organization and processes where the energy companys individual fuel mix was used.
arebeing adapted to monitor, measure and report these resultsin the future: and Scope of reporting emissions Following the acquisition of TAG, Micro Focus operational Lighting projects during the period include LED replacements infrastructure approximately trebled in size.
On a like-for-like basis toassist in energy consumption reduction, with an initial pilot in Micro Focus energy consumption was lower than the previous Belfast being assessed ahead of a further roll out, and secondly, reporting year by 0.1%, with best practice across the entire real asurvey to assess the benefits of photo-voltaic panels for further estate and targeted employee communication staff focused on energy savings.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions GGE Since TAG had no environmental reporting requirements or tools Our GGE objective is to reduce our emissions year-on-year.
During tomonitor and measure energy consumption, the Company has, the 12 months to 30 April 2016, we received the findings of our where possible, implemented the same systems and processes that ESOS Audit report and have incorporated its findings into our heritage Micro Focus used in the past to have these operational programmes where relevant, to maximize the benefit from the across the entire organization.
This work is helping with the ability auditand to comply with legislation.
to monitor and report on year-on-year comparisons going forward.
For this reporting year we have maintained our methodology for During the 12 months to 30 April 2016, Micro Focus made progress reporting Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
On a like for like basis, on reducing the merged Companys carbon footprint by reducing the across the entire Group, Micro Focus achieved a 2% reduction overall real estate of the wider Group, integrating locations wherever inenergy consumption forthis reporting year.
Total UK data for the Group delivered comparison of the reported Group in FY15, due to organizational a1.6% increase in absolute consumption however: this would have boundary changes, in Singapore, Australia, Austria and the UK, been a 2.3% increase had we not integrated the Bracknell office thedecrease in consumption from the previous period produced intoour Head Office.
40 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Micro Focus reports emissions data on all locations where available, irrespective of the size of the Micro Focus facility.
Year-on-year comparisons for energy consumed Forsmaller locations where no such data is available from andcarbon emissions managedserviced offices, or where Micro Focus is part of a 1 FY16 FY15 Change % multi-tenant occupancy building, or where staffing levels are Total energy consumption lessthan 10, the mean average per head is extrapolated out metered MWhrs 22,307 22,759 2.0% fromallother locations.
Energy consumed metered Locations where this approach has been taken are: KWhrs per employee 5,774 6,462 10.6% GHG emissions tonnes e-CO 8,933 10,154 12.0% 2 Actual emissions data used Bangalore India, Beijing China, GHG emissions per employee Belfast Northern Ireland, Bracknell UK, Cambridge US, tonnes e-CO 2.99 3.78 20.9% 2 Dublin Ireland, Dsseldorf Germany, Ennis Ireland, Galway Total estimated GHG emissions Ireland, Guangzhou China, Haifa Israel, Hong Kong China, Ktons e-CO 10.5 11.7 10.3% Johannesburg South Africa, Linz Austria, Lisle US, Milan Italy, 2 Mumbai India, New Delhi India, Newbury UK, Nuremburg 1 Germany, Paris France, Prague Czech Republic, Provo US, T he FY15 comparatives have been restated to reflect the impact of TAG, FY15 was reported as Heritage Micro Focus only.
Rockville US, Singapore Singapore, Sofia Bulgaria, Stockholm Sweden andTroy US.
Charity and community support The following locations are out of scope due to size and or lack During the financial year 2016, Micro Focus donated more than ofavailability of information: $82,000 for selected charities and community support projects.
Where the data is not available, the same intensity ratio is used The Company encourages employees to help local communities forthe location on a headcount basis.
Average UK CO head 2 andsupport relevant charities, chosen in line with agreed criteria multiplied by headcount Alphen den Rijn Netherlands, Austin and guidelines of education and local community support.
US, Bellingham US, Brasilia Brazil, Brighton US, Burlington Theseinitiatives are managed in two ways: US, Cape Town South Africa, Lyon France, Columbus US, CostaMesa US, Dubai UAE, Edinburgh UK, Geneva Firstly, on a funds-matching basis for selected charity initiatives Switzerland, Hanau Germany, Horscholm Denmark, Houston and awarding a monthly community project grant to initiatives US, Ismaning Germany, Lisbon Portugal, Loveland US, put forward by employees.
Madrid Spain, Melbourne Australia, Mount Pleasant US, NewYork US, Oslo Norway, Rome Italy, Rotterdam Secondly, by allocating a number of employee days per month Netherlands, Santa Clara US, So Paulo Brazil, Seattle US, by teams or individuals to directly benefit a chosen charity or Seoul South Korea, Shanghai China, Shenzhen China, community initiative.
SouthEuclid US, Sydney Australia, TheHague Netherlands, Taipei Taiwan, Tokyo Japan and Toronto Canada.
The programme followed the same approach as in recent years, with Micro Focus charity committee selecting a global charity to The following location is a multi-tenanted site which is sub-let support for the first half of the year, with the focus in the second initsentirety and is out of scope for this years report: sixmonths turning to a number of local charities.
The split allows Richmond UK.
for a balance between international and country level fundraising initiatives.
All initiatives follow core themes of education and local Intensity ratio community support.
To achieve a global picture of emissions, whilst recognising that notall locations can be in scope, an intensity ratio of CO per 2 As mentioned above, the total level of funds raised and contributed tonne per head has been used.
As not all entities are revenue was more than $82,000: $40,000 on local causes across six generating and not all can calculate emissions, this ratio should countries, $24,000 on international causes and the remainder on demonstrate a more comprehensive assessment.
national causes in UK, USA, Bulgaria, Italy, Ireland andSouth Africa.
2016 targets In the prior reporting year Micro Focus beat its target of a 1% reduction in emissions compared to the previous year.
During the 12 months to 30 April 2016, despite the complexities and distractions of the acquisition of TAG, the organization targeted a similar reduction and delivered a 2% overall reduction.
During this reporting year we have continued our commitment toboth CDP and the Carbon Trust, applying for recertification withthe Carbon Trust.
We have maintained our capital budget forinvestment in energy saving initiatives to help us drive furtherreductions.
41 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate social responsibility continued This is the fourth year that the local project grants initiative Marketplace and suppliers hasbeen in place and in the last 12 months approximately Micro Focus products and services can help organizations lower $40,000supported 16 charity or community organizations their energy impact and customers often benefit from a lower withwide geographic spread across Micro Focus Group carbon footprint.
Projects included: Suppliers to the Group are sent Micro Focus Corporate Social Supporting a charity project in India to provide four Indian Responsibility charter and are encouraged to follow carbon schools and approximately 1,000 children with new shoes: responsible practices.
In addition, the Company operates a Supplier Review Program and part of that program is to request the details Participating in an initiative in Africa to build a community of the suppliers Environmental credentials.
At initial engagement centrefor education and health education purposes: with all suppliers information is requested to improve understanding of their environmental position and policies.
Further work will be Helping a project in Northern Ireland in the Belfast area done on this across the enlarged Group in the forthcoming year.
delivering computer science knowledge to children aged between nine and 11: Employees and ethics In April 2015, Micro Focus announced the start of an integration In the US, supporting the following projects: programme to bring together the TAG operations with those of heritage Micro Focus.
As previously stated, the acquisition of TAG A Boy Scout Troop in their work with the homeless in the transformed the size of the organization.
Employee numbers grew Maryland area: from approximately 1,200 employees to more than 4,000.
The integration of multiple teams, departments and cultures has been A World Youth Foundation project helping with education asignificant program of detailed work during the 12 months to andcommunity initiatives in the Houston area: 30April 2016.
Supporting the development of a Visual and Performing ArtsEducation Program to help children avoid drugs and The Company is committed to developing a culture that provides gang life in Santa Clara: and arewarding and enjoyable working environment for employees Participating in a community project in Troy to provide who in turn are able to develop their careers in a professional and foodtodisadvantaged children to assist with study successful organization.
This commitment has been coupled with outsideofschool hours.
extensive planning and human resources initiatives to support and develop employees through a time of substantial change.
During Global charity fundraising in the first six months was focused the year, integration programs have been working alongside onhumanitarian crisis raising a total of $24,000 to support recruitment and retention programs through multiple training and thevarious natural disasters around the world.
performance management initiatives across the organization.
During the second half of the year fundraising covered a Key HR metrics at 30 April 2016: broadrange of local charities and initiatives supported around Micro Focus operations in six countries, selected within the Total number of employees worldwide 4,287 corporate guidelines of education and community support.
4,258fulltime equivalent FTE : Total Workforce Worldwide 4,770 including temporary Throughout the financial year, employees are regularly updated contractors 4,704 FTE : about community support and charity initiatives to keep them Percentage of women employees worldwide 22.3% informed, encourage participation and support, and to provide 2015: 27.9% : feedback on the chosen initiatives through regular updates on Percentage of women senior management thecharity page and the front page of the Companys Intranet.
125employees: 12.2% 2015: 13.2% : Percentage of women governance body 22.2% includingCompany Secretary, two out of nine 2015: 30%.
This has reverted to 30% with the appointment of Amanda Brown tothe board from 1 July 2016.
42 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Micro Focus continues to strive for a diverse range of candidates The Group is currently in the process of taking steps to ensure for new roles: that its business and supply chain are free from modern slavery and human trafficking and a statement to this effect will be A half year bonus was paid to 2,970 eligible non-commissionable published on Micro Focuss website.
The steps being taken employees.
A full year bonus will be paid to approximately 2,982 include an assessment of where the Group is potentially at risk, eligible non-commissionable employees at the end of July 2016: updating procedures and policies in relation to our supplier programme and updating the Groups Worldwide Code of Comprehensive six monthly and full year performance Business Conduct and Ethics.
management reviews of all non-sales employees were carried out.
81.4% of the employee population completed a half year performance management plan PMP, a lower percentage Strategic Report achieved than in prior periods as inherited TAG managers and This 2016 Strategic Report on pages 3 to 43 is hereby approved employees joined the review process.
PMPs for the full year andsigned on behalf of the board, areon-going current completion is 91.6% with the Wingspan global performance review process being rolled out across thewhole Company: International Share Save roll-out continued.
Following the Kevin Loosemore TAGacquisition, the scheme was made available to the enlarged Executive Chairman workforce.
The scheme is now available across 29 countries to 13 July 2016 2,593 employees, comprising 96.3% of all employees outside North America where a different scheme is in place.
At 30 April 2016 International Share Save participation was at 27.2% of eligible employees in 29 countries worldwide compared with78.3% and 27.4% at 30 April 2015.
Combined with the Employee Stock Purchase Program in North America, 97.6% ofemployees globally are able to share in the Companys successthrough participation in share programmes: Expanded employee communications activities supported theTAG integration programme, with broader sharing of AllHands meetings, increased email updates and intranet features including recordings of management interviews: The Group maintained an excellent record in health and safetymatters for all employees one minor reportable incidentinthe last 12 months : There has been continued commitment to ensuring compliance with anti-bribery, data protection and market abuse and insider dealing laws.
This has included our Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Market Abuse and Fraud Awareness courses being rolled out and completed by all employees across the integrated Company, and the continuance of on-going compliance checks during the period.
During FY16 and the beginning of FY17, targeted face-to-face anti-bribery and corruption training was carried out in the following high risk locations: Italy, South Africa, China, India and Brazil.
Additionally employees and partners from various high risk countries also attended faceto-face anti-bribery and corruption training sessions at the Companys sales conference in Dallas, US: and 43
