Strategic Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY As an international hotel business operating in This report reviews our current systems and Furthermore, no donations were made by the over 20 countries, we remain committed to performance for the financial year ending Group for political purposes during the year supporting, protecting and contributing to the 31 December 2016 and highlights actions we 2015: nil.
Further information is provided in environment and communities in which we have taken to enhance our sustainability efforts.
our Caring for our colleagues section below.
In addition, we endeavour to report Governance Corporate responsibility is considered in all transparently on tax policy and management, Within our operations, we are fully committed aspects of our business to ensure that more information of which can be found in our to meeting the highest standards of customers, colleagues, the environment, local Annual Report & Accounts.
We adhere to all applicable laws communities and all our stakeholders and regulations, not just the letter of the law understand and benefit from what we do.
We but the spirit of the law.
Board Responsibility work hard to train and develop our colleagues The Board is responsible for the Groups and as such, they provide a valuable In this financial year we have received no corporate responsibility with the Group Chief contribution to the industry.
Our hotels support material fines or penalties associated with Executive Officer taking the lead.
To support local charities and community projects and we non-compliance to any law relating to the our commitment to sustainability, the Board actively seek ways to reduce our impact on the environment, human rights violations, labour supports a number of policies, collectively environment in our own operations and standards, anti-corruption or tax.
referred to as Responsible Hospitality, which through engaging with our supply chain.
are designed to recognise and manage the 20 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information our suppliers and business partners to align to our business embrace diversity and creates an the standards set out within the Code.
Further environment that fosters fairness and equal guidance in specific areas is provided through opportunity in every aspect.
For example, when related global and regional policies and recruiting, all applicants are assessed fairly guidance, such as our Anti-Bribery and regardless of race, gender, age, disability, marital Business Hospitality and Gifts policies, of which status, sexual orientation or religious belief.
As mentioned, these policies are translated into other languages A number of our hotels also help young people where appropriate such as Spanish in the US from disadvantaged backgrounds into work by and Chinese.
providing employment skills training and vocational opportunities, for example our US To further embed and raise awareness of key hotels introduced paid internships for young operational risks, a global online compliance people in Alaska and also has in place a training platform was launched in 2016, initially training programme called Training Today focusing on anti-bribery training, including which helps supervisors to encourage and money laundering and embezzlement.
Our aim support diversity in their work environment.
is to expand this online training to include competition law and data protection.
Our human resources procedures outline how we conduct risk assessments for new hotels We have developed a group-wide Anti-Bribery and existing operations associated with a and Anti-Corruption Compliance Guide which range of labour standards and human rights is available to all employees.
This guide issues, including diversity and discrimination.
highlights key risks relevant to M&C, such as risks associated with corporate hospitality and More information on equal opportunity can be gifts and with operations in countries where found in the Directors Report of our Annual corruption is perceived to be a high risk.
guide sets out a number of procedures for managing these risks, including whistleblower Learning and Development mechanisms and procedures for risk All staff are encouraged to gain industry assessments for operations or potential relevant qualifications where appropriate, both business associates or counterparties.
to strengthen the business through a welltrained and engaged workforce and to support In the reporting year, we are unaware of any personal career development.
staff being disciplined or dismissed due to non-compliance with our Anti-Bribery Policy.
We believe that communication with our employees is a priority and we actively seek We are committed to respecting the human opportunities to engage with them.
This can be rights of our colleagues and others that we through staff outings and shared work engage with during the course of our business experiences which help to promote team operations, including customers, suppliers and building and create a better understanding of business partners.
Our human rights policy the Company.
reflects our commitment to certain fundamental human rights principles which are aligned with We continue to have in place our global brandthose of the International Labour Organisation defining Outstanding Service Excellence and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and employee development training programme Human Rights including freedom of association where colleagues are empowered to adapt and Groups wider impact on the environment and and collective bargaining.
deliver a tailored service to each guest.
This the communities in which we operate.
These inspiration-based service approach is designed policies are reviewed regularly and are updated The Group has also adopted a formal slavery to engage both colleagues and guests on a as necessary.
They are also translated into and human trafficking statement which is personal level, encouraging a genuine relevant languages where appropriate.
A list of available at https: www.
com connection and creating true fans of our brand.
these policies can be found on our website at en  https: www.
com en For the year ended to 31 December 2016, the investors policies Caring for our colleagues Group employed an average of 10,996 people Talent Development worldwide in over 20 countries 2015: 10,870.
Corporate Ethics and Business Conduct We recognise the need to be able to attract, The Group is committed to maintaining the Employees by gender Male Female develop and retain employees with the highest standards of ethics and integrity in the potential, skills and experience necessary for Directors 8 1 way we do business.
Our Code of Ethics and the continued development of our business.
1 Senior managers 211 119 Business Conduct Code sets out our This is achieved by providing a healthy, safe, Other employees 5,674 4,983 minimum expectations for all colleagues and fair and happy working environment.
describes our most important legal obligations.
Note: 1 This excludes 3 4 subsidiary directors who were external nonThe Code reflects the responsibility we have, Diversity independent independent appointments of which 26 were male not just to comply with the law, but also to do and 8 female.
Our employment policies not only comply with all the right thing for wider society.
We also expect relevant legislation, but ensure that all areas of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 21 Strategic Report Corporate responsibility continued The average number of employees employed targets linked to continuous improvement, In the reporting year, 26% of our hotels across by the Group including the Companys reporting and review of health and safety the Group were covered by an Environmental Directors during the year analysed by category matters.
was as follows: Environmental Impact Recognitions 2016 2015 Energy use Our UK business is also Number Number Energy consumption is the most significant proud to have achieved Hotel operating staff 8,397 8,399 environmental impact of our business and we Carbon Trust Standard Management administration 1,481 1,385 continue to drive operational efficiency and certification for its Sales and marketing 468 466 investment in energy efficient plant and environmental efforts in Repairs and maintenance 650 620 equipment in our hotels.
achieving a 10.9% reduction in its carbon emissions over a two-year period 10,996 10,870 For instance as a result of the UK Energy and for showing improvements to internal Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS governance, management and sustainability A safe working environment undertaken in 2015, the recommendations practices.
We strive to provide and maintain a safe identified from hotel audits were implemented environment for all employees, customers and across a number of our UK hotels.
These In recognition of adopting sustainable other visitors to our premises.
To ensure their include the ongoing LED replacement practices, a number of our hotels in Singapore protection and well-being, our health and programme, upgrade of boiler equipment at received Green Mark awards, an initiative set safety functions have comprehensive our Copthorne Gatwick and Effingham Park up by the Building and Construction Authority processes and procedures in place at all hotels, the replacement of 35 chillers across to encourage environmentally friendly buildings.
properties to comply with relevant legislation.
various sites and the installation of more energy Such measures also support our hotels to efficient motors and pumps.
Since 2011, we have identify hazards, assess risks and implement been reporting our appropriate controls to reduce occupational Our energy consumption is shown below: emissions injuries, accidents and fatalities.
performance annually 2016 2015 to the CDPs climate change programme Health and safety is a principal risk and as part formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project.
As a of our risk management, effective training, Absolute Per room Absolute Per room kWh kWh kWh kWh result of the Groups efforts to effectively supervision and regular communication on manage its climate change risks through health and safety matters is provided to our 692,363,841 23,643 685,644,268 23,862 mitigation and adaptation, we were able to employees.
To support this, a comprehensive significantly improve on last years score and schedule of audits, inspections and drills is We also participate in various energy saving were shortlisted by the CDP for achieving the carried out both internally and by independent initiatives.
For example, globally, a number of best improvement in climate change score.
We bodies to check awareness, compliance and our hotels joined millions of people worldwide hope to continue to build upon this success readiness to deal with emergencies.
in observing Earth Hour 2016 by switching off over the coming year.
unnecessary lights for an hour to raise Our UK region, for example, has published and awareness of global warming and climate launched health and safety management change.
policies and procedures certified to OHSAS 18001 externally audited by the British Standards Institution.
Management continues the process of rolling out the system across the remaining UK portfolio which is designed to ensure robust and comprehensive risk assessment and recognition across the business.
These efforts are supported by compliance management software resulting in tighter control of statutory A number of our hotels have also implemented mandatory activities, inspections and creation an Environmental Management System that is of audit trails.
aligned with the requirements of ISO 14001 which requires each asset has a framework for Quarterly reports covering health and safety identifying and mitigating environmental impact, matters are also presented to the Audit as well as having processes for identifying Committee.
These provide statistics on relevant environmental legislation and ensuring accidents, incidents and progress in fulfilling compliance.
22 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Greenhouse Gas Reporting Building on the success of reducing our carbon Global tonnes of CO e 2 Details of our total carbon footprint for the footprint since 2010, we have set a target to 2010 period 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016 reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 operational 2016 2015 Base year is summarised in the table below.
The base carbon emissions from energy use and 1 Scope 1 58,783 60,524 73,309 year was set as 2010 which was the first year refrigerant losses by 10% by 2020, based on a 2 Scope 2 274,498 282,765 235,916 the Group reported greenhouse gas emissions.
Carbon intensity For this reporting period our carbon footprint tonnes of CO2e was 362,071 tonnes.
Our Scope 1, 2 and 3 Waste and resource use room.
Includes scope emissions, as well as the underlying energy, Increasing waste diverted from landfill remains one, two and three refrigerant, waste, water and travel data, have a key focus on our sustainability journey.
By emission but not travel 12.30 12.95 13.32 been externally verified by an independent third 3 sharing best practice and innovative ideas Scope 3 28,790 31,814 19,214 party, Carbon Credentials, in accordance with among our hotels, waste reduction and No.
A copy of the Verification recycling initiatives have been spread across 4 4,5 Total gross emissions 362,071 375,103 328,439 Statement can be found at http: www.
com en investors corporate- 1 Direct emissions from activities owned or controlled by our responsibility.
Our London hotels work closely with our UK organisation that release emissions into the atmosphere.
waste contractor to improve the recycle 2 Indirect emissions that are a consequence of our organisations To calculate our emissions, we have followed activities but which occur at sources we do not own or control.
facilities in the back of house areas and 3 Other indirect emissions that are a consequence of our activities the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol conference rooms.
For example, glass bottles which occur at sources which we do not own or control and Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard which are not classed as scope 2 emissions.
for drinking water are provided in the guest 4 Includes business travel.
methodology and the operational control rooms and function rooms, thereby eliminating 5 Restated following external verification.
approach to determine what properties are the use of their plastic counterparts.
By included within the boundary.
Franchise hotels introducing this system, we significantly reduce In the reporting period, absolute emissions and investment hotels that are managed by the amount of plastic waste that would be have decreased by 3% despite the opening of third party operators have not been included in generated as well as reducing the carbon several new hotels.
Emissions per unit floor the data collation.
emissions associated with the production, area have decreased by 25% since the 2010 transportation and recycling of plastic water base year and emissions per room have bottles.
Other waste reduction activities implemented Going forward, we plan to align our emission across our hotels include collecting useful reporting period with our financial reporting items for donation, such as a number of our year i. e. 1 January to 31 December.
For hotels in Asia participated in Clean the World the reporting period 1 January 2016 to Volunteer Day which supports the recycling of 31 December 2016, our carbon footprint was soap bars and helps to promote hygiene 360,403 tonnes.
Waste data: Relative: Carbon Emissions by Source m floor area Our hotels have reduced the volume of waste Room sent to landfill by 10% since 2015 on an kgCO e m tCO e Room absolute basis and by 12% on a per room 180 16.0 basis.
170 15.0 164 162 2016 2015 160 14.0 Absolute Per room Absolute Per room 148 tonnes to tonnes to tonnes to tonnes to 13.32 13.28 150 13.0 landfill landfill landfill landfill 143 12.95 12.66 12.38 14,386 0.49 15,979 0.56 12.30 12.28 140 12.0 132 129 Water 130 11.0 123 Water is a scarce resource and we recognise that demand for water is likely to surge further 120 10.0 in the next few decades: we therefore actively strive and encourage our colleagues to 110 9.0 conserve water usage throughout our business, particularly where we operate in 100 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 8.0 water stressed regions.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 23 Strategic Report Corporate responsibility continued Based on the World Resources Institutes Similarly, the Heritage Hotel Manila, Philippines Wherever practical, we purchase products analysis of future water stress, we identified that joined Philippine Coast Guard Auxiliary made from local renewable and ethically sound 28% of our current operations are in countries Squadron 116th in a coastal cleanup removing sources.
Specific focus is placed on using facing extremely high water stress by 2040. litter and debris from the Manila Bay Coastline.
suppliers that reduce emissions and air pollution from food miles and our aim is to use We conduct risk assessments regarding water suppliers with a demonstrable commitment to Sourcing responsibly issues as part of our on-going risk assessment sustainable production methods.
As a global hotel company that purchases food procedures at our existing hotels.
and beverage, linens, amenities, beds and To demonstrate our commitment to energy, sourcing is a complex and often To further minimise consumption through sustainable sourcing, one of our major decentralised process.
Our suppliers extend inadvertent water use, we seek customer suppliers in the UK who provides us with a beyond 20 countries and span multiple engagement by encouraging the reuse of variety of fresh, cold and frozen foods has industries, legal contexts and infrastructure towels.
We also have measures in place that committed to reducing its carbon emissions by challenges.
We work closely with our suppliers quickly identify leaks and potential problems, in reducing the total distance travelled by its fleet to ensure that their products and services meet addition to providing water saving devices in through the introduction of a new vehicle which the demands of our operations and the guestrooms and toilets.
has separate regulated varying temperatures in expectations of our guests.
each of its storage compartments.
This, Water consumption: combined with the use of the latest driver We therefore expect our suppliers to performance software and rainwater-harvesting demonstrate effective environmental 2016 2015 facilities at their new sites represents a direct management of energy use, greenhouse gas 3 3 Absolute Per room m Absolute Per room m investment in the sustainability of its operations 3 3 emissions, water use, waste, pollution, m consumed consumed m consumed consumed and in the health of the environment.
We also 6,092,639 208 6,099,614 212 question whether suppliers have appropriate corporate governance arrangements in place Our water consumption data has been to operate in an ethical and sustainable manner independently verified.
while encouraging diversity and equal opportunities throughout their business.
Pollution Our colleagues are encouraged to contribute Our selection process for suppliers is stringent their time and effort to voluntarily participate in and we request and review information on their both international and local clean-up activities.
reduction of packaging, environmental policies These activities encourage and inspire our and sustainable transport plans prior to teams and local people to truly make a contracts being signed.
Since 2013, it has difference within their community by collecting been our aim to assess all new European and removing rubbish from local parks, local suppliers based on their environmental, labour, beaches, rivers and streets, promoting recycling corruption and human rights practices.
and awareness on climate change issues.
Volunteers from the Grand Millennium Dubai Hotel participated enthusiastically in the Clean Up UAE 2016 campaign, organised by Emirates Environmental Group EEG.
The countrywide initiative attracts more than 125,000 people from all over the UAE who give their time and energy to remove tonnes of waste from various areas.
24 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information two homes in Durham.
This initiative is one of Millennium Residences Beijing Organised Supporting the community many community service initiatives the hotel an Annual Autumn Outing for all staff in We are committed to making positive and has planned for this year.
September of which a total of 150 staff lasting impacts on the communities in which participated.
Our investment in local Habitat for Humanity is a global non-profit communities is fundamental to our business Christian housing organisation with a mission both from an ethical perspective, but also as to eliminate poverty housing worldwide by efforts to improve the prosperity and wellbeing building simple, decent houses with the help of of our local communities will contribute to the the homeowner families themselves and stability of the local tourism industry and volunteers.
therefore to our resilience as a business.
The McCormick Scottsdale, USA banded We actively facilitate employee involvement together as a team to help support and give with charitable partners, as laid out in our back to the community.
Their recent Group Charity policy.
Our colleagues have undertaking was a clothing drive for the embraced this by helping the elderly, homeless, Salvation Army.
The team was able to donate hospital patients and people with disabilities.
453.6kg of clothing to the worthy organisation.
The General Manager of our Millennium Corniche Hotel, Abu Dhabi, Mr Nemo Below are a few of the initiatives from our hotel Other community projects undertaken by the Acimovic, encourages increased engagement colleagues, who are helping to build a brighter hotel include sponsoring a Red Cross Blood amongst management and his employees.
Drive and assisting a therapy dogs organisation to renovate their office and puppy facility.
He recently held a breakfast session where all Millennium Hotel Cincinnati, USA helped to management and staff shared a cooking raise awareness of bullying in schools by Millennium Hotel Sirih Jakarta, Indonesia, experience.
This commitment to staff wellbeing hosting a luncheon for a group of students via the Jakarta Rotary Club, donated towels, leads to positive attitudes and motivation from two local public schools.
Games and blankets, bath mats and clothes to flash flood between management and staff which in turn activities were played to help foster positive victims in Garut, a town in the west province of reflects positively on guests through interaction and promote harmony and Indonesia.
exceptional service, making them want to tolerance among the children.
The hotel also return to the hotel again.
provided books for them to choose for their The Groups operations in London donated summer reading.
Millennium Hotel London Mayfair Executive gifts for sick children and older patients for the Chef, Paul Danabie, an active member of the Barts Charity Send a Smile with Santa Royal Academy of Culinary Arts, raised 5,000 In another community outreach activity, campaign.
in donations from the generosity of guests for JW Marriott Hong Kong took part in the the Academys Adopt a School programme.
annual Youth Outreach Flag Day to raise funds to support the Youth Employment Start-up Programme which provides young people with basic working skills and the Crisis Residential Centre which offers counselling sessions for those who encounter personal crisis or domestic violence.
The hotel also supports the All-night Outreaching Team operation, an organisation which aims to search for youths who are unwilling to go home and stay out late by arranging regular midnight duty-tours.
The Heritage Hotel Manila, Philippines arranged for 30 runners to participate in the Copthorne Kings Hotel, Singapore held a Although we have made healthy strides within Million Volunteer Run held on 6 February 2016. post Chinese New Year CNY Hi-Tea session our responsible hospitality programme, we The run is organised by the Philippine Red for about 110 elderly residents at a home for recognise that we still have much to improve.
Cross to raise funds to purchase ambulances, the aged in March 2016.
The elderly residents We are working to set targets and action plans earthquake rescue trucks, food trucks, shelters were given CNY Red Packets and entertained for a cleaner and greener future.
Our and other lifesaving vehicles and equipment.
with a singing session by the hotel.
Kitchen colleagues continue to make us proud and we staff also prepared a sumptuous buffet spread look forward to continuing this journey in Millennium Hotel Durham, USA spent a day for the event.
creating a more socially and responsible volunteering with Habitat for Humanity to build business together.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 25
