Corporate social responsibility Brands people trust Each year, we welcome millions of guests Tractor Assurance and Bord Bia, to procure Our guests trust us to into our restaurants, bars and pubs, meat and poultry products that meet their serve good food that serving them around 130 million meals, exacting higher welfare standards.
Our global making us one of the largest ontrade suppliers are required to comply with represents good value for caterers in the UK.
Our priority is to source recognised EU and global animal welfare food products of the right quality at the right standards and are audited accordingly.
money, which is safely price, where the quantity that we need can Over the last year we have celebrated a be guaranteed.
number of key achievements: We continue to strengthen our relationships Food sourcing and Good Food with UK farmers and producers, working As a responsible company, we regard the directly with growers, where possible, to welfare of livestock as a matter of utmost deliver fresh seasonal products to our importance.
Within our Sourcing Policy we kitchens.
For example, all our fresh potatoes have defined our standards relating to animal in Toby and Crown Carveries are British.
welfare, which are applicable to all suppliers of Through our Cattle Scheme we work with beef, pork, lamb, poultry, liquid milk, shell-on 20 farmers, rearing around 2,000 calves eggs and finfish, across all our brands.
These under our direct contract agreements.
Since standards will apply to the supply of additional Spring 2015 the scheme has supplied Miller protein and dairy products as the Sourcing & Carter with beef steaks every week, all Policy develops.
2,000 traceable from farm to fork.
As part of this As part of our Sourcing Policy we require all programme we work closely with Blade suppliers of meat and poultry products to Farming, selecting all our young calves Calves reared by 20 farmers under procure material produced from livestock from their specialised rearing units.
In 2015 reared in accordance with the Five Freedoms, our direct contract agreements Blade Farming received a Good Calf as developed by the Farm Animal Welfare Commendation from Compassion in World Council, regardless of country of origin.
Farming, recognising their strict adherence For more detail on this policy visit to higher welfare calf rearing standards.
com responsibility goodfood We take responsible sourcing extremely overarchingpolicy seriously and recognise concerns about As a minimum, all meat and poultry purchased the sustainable sourcing of fish.
We are by us is from animals reared to meet the legal committed to working with our supplier 25m standards required on animal welfare, as base to ensure well managed and operated in the source country.
sustainable fishing practices are in place.
Free range eggs purchased Where appropriate and commercially viable, we work with accredited bodies, such as Red last year 28 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 We have an annual spend in a calendar It is now a mandatory requirement for all year of over 27m on beef and poultry suppliers to Mitchells & Butlers to provide products that are covered by Red Tractor us with nutrition information for every food accreditation, the UKs largest food product, and to follow Company policy on assurance scheme.
These products are the provision of accurate nutrition data.
This endorsed on our menus using the Red enables our chefs to have the detail required Tractor logo.
This includes British chicken in to design and improve dishes that meet the Harvester and British turkey in Toby Carvery.
specific nutritional requirements of our guests.
We have engaged with ShareAction, a Allergens registered charity that promotes responsible investment, to work together on common We are compliant with the EU legislation, environmental, social and governance ESG which came into effect in December 2014, issues, that may be taken into account by concerning the availability of information shareholders when undertaking risk analysis about 14 common food allergens.
The guide also includes practical advice for Salt In June 2016 we were awarded with the suppliers and our development chefs to help Compassion in World Farming Good Egg reduce calories, sugars, fat and saturated fats, In the Autumn of 2015 all our brands replaced Award for our commitment to using shell on with the focus on adopting healthier cooking standard salt used in salt shakers on the tables free range eggs across all the business by methods, selecting alternative ingredients and and to season food back of house with a 2017, resulting in the purchase of more than technical solutions for designing healthier mineral salt containing 15% less sodium than 25 million free range eggs a year.
options that deliver on both taste and quality.
standard salt and which is high in magnesium, thereby delivering on our commitment to the Several of our brands have increased their Nutrition Government Responsibility Deal pledge to range of healthier options, and supported support and enable consumers to reduce these with nutrition and health information, We continue to look for the most effective way their dietary salt intake.
This will remove to make them easily identifiable to the health to present nutritional information to our guests over 16.8 tons of salt from our guests diet.
Examples include: Toby across our portfolio of brands.
By using our Magnesium has no less than 10 authorised Carverys signposting of a range of menu guest insight to understand better our guests health claims including contributing to the options which are low in saturated fat and preferences and priorities, we can develop our maintenance of normal teeth and bones.
contain 500 calories or fewer: and All Bar nutritional messaging to ensure it remains Ones range of calorie controlled options, with effective.
We believe our focus should be on the energy published on the menu copy, whilst Sugar communicating ingredients, healthy cooking dishes high in protein, omega-3, antioxidants techniques, the freshness of our food and We are actively engaging with Public Health and lighter options are also signposted.
providing healthier options to enable our England and our trade association, the British guests to make an informed choice when Hospitality Association, to determine the eating with us.
Responsibility Deal partnership best way to meet the objectives of the UK Governments Childhood Obesity Strategy We publish the nutritional information for our We are committed partners of the within our sector.
menus on our websites for Harvester, Toby Governments Responsibility Deal, and remain Carvery, Crown Carveries, Ember Inns, committed to delivering our pledges relating Sizzling and Oak Tree Pubs and we are to artificial transfats and salt reduction.
Signposting of healthier options continuing to roll this out onto other brand In addition, this year we have signed up to In partnership with Campden BRI, we websites as they are refreshed.
pledges, and submitted delivery plans to the developed a guide to help position our Nutritional information is provided as a guide Department of Health, in respect of fruit and brands as leaders in the industry for healthier and values are calculated using detailed vegetables Crown Carveries, Toby Carvery, options and to enable guest communication recipes that include weights and measures, Harvester and calorie reduction Harvester.
that is on trend, truthful, substantiated and manufacturers nutrition data and lab data We continue to support and enable our legally compliant.
We have invested significantly customers to eat and drink fewer calories This best practice guide translates the in technical processes and systems to through product and menu reformulation, regulations and relevant codes of practice incorporate the requirements of Regulation reviewing portion sizes, education and into user-friendly language to support the EU No.
1169 2011 on the provision of food information.
development and communication of information to consumers.
We follow both commercially viable healthier options that regulatory and best practice advice, to ensure Childrens menus comply with all relevant regulations and do the information is as accurate as possible and not mislead the guest.
In response to the growing concern over helps our guests make the most informed childhood obesity, we have developed our choice to suit their dietary needs and own Childrens Food Standards that were preferences.
implemented across all brands from Spring 2016.
29 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate social responsibility continued The standards incorporate best practice and recommendations from leading health charities such as The Soil Association and have been developed in consultation with the School Food Standards, Government Buying Standards and established dietary recommendations for children.
They have been designed to help all our brands improve the nutritional profile of their childrens food and drink offering, so that all menus provide variety, controlled levels of public health sensitive nutrients and make healthy eating easier for our guests, whilst still maintaining the feel of a treat occasion.
Food safety We place great importance on the Food Hygiene Ratings Scores of our pubs, bars and restaurants and we have made a commitment to increase the number of our businesses that achieve a 4 or 5 star Food Hygiene Rating, taking a zero tolerance approach to anything below.
We continue to strive for a score of 5 Serving alcohol responsibly Working with us in each business and conduct independently commissioned audits in all of our businesses at Our individual businesses and ultimately our As one of the largest managed restaurant least twice per year.
We have rigorous checks business as a whole, rely on our ability to companies in the UK with over 100 years and policies in place and we consult regularly operate within the terms of our licences and experience, we have a huge range of career with Government and local authorities to the law and, as a responsible operator, we are opportunities on offer.
Through our people ensure we maintain the highest standards determined to build, promote and maintain strategy we strive to attract, develop and retain in food safety.
We are currently investing a culture of responsible retailing across the best talent.
Everything we do as a business significantly in upgrading our safety training the Company.
is built on the enthusiasm and professionalism including food safety, fire safety and health of our people.
Our Alcohol and Social Responsibility policy and safety training.
promotes good practice in the responsible We are aware of the Food Standards Listening to our people retailing of alcohol through our employee Agencys Regulating our Future initiative training, safe operational practices and Every year we carry out our employee and we are actively participating with the responsible pricing and promotions.
engagement survey, Your Say, to understand initiative including: better what is important to our employees.
We have produced a Prevention of Underage Sharing food safety inspection data with Encouragingly, in FY 2016 our engagement Drinking policy, which includes our use of the Food Standards Agency scores improved for all groups of employees.
This forms a fundamental part People told us they could see their colleagues of our employee training programme and Participating in a pilot scheme with Bristol living the PRIDE Passion, Respect, Innovation, includes regular refresher training to help City Council Drive and Engagement values following a ensure that our retail teams are fully aware of Attending and contributing to Regulating focus on values and behaviours and that they their licensing responsibilities and not serving our Future seminars understand how these can help underpin alcohol to anyone underage.
Our colleagues The Companys Head of Safety has been We do not operate any 24 hour licences.
responses clearly indicated that they loved appointed to the Expert Advisory Panel being part of a team and that there were As part of our commitment to promote a Industry for the Food Standards Agency opportunities to develop if they wanted to.
responsible approach to retailing alcohol, as part of its Regulating our Future project.
we support and work in partnership with a He will assist the agency as it develops a Diversity number of organisations including Drinkaware future model for Food Safety Enforcement Trust, Pubwatch, Best Bar None, the British in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
We are committed to providing equal Institute of Innkeeping Awarding Body and the opportunities for all of our employees.
Our The Companys Head of Safety is also head of Association of Licensed and Multiple Retailers.
employee Diversity Policy ensures that every the British Hospitality Association BHA Food employee, without exception, is treated We encourage our brands to promote Group and earlier this year was instrumental equally and fairly and that all employees are responsible drinking messages to our guests in the publication by the BHA of the Industry aware of their responsibilities.
through our websites, social media pages and Guide to Good Hygiene Practice.
30 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 The policy confirms that there will be no direct occupied to 1,500 in 2017.
At Mitchells & Supporting Marie Curie Care or indirect discrimination in respect of age, Butlers, a 16 year old school leaver can join Once again, our businesses worked together to disability, religious belief, gender, sexual us on an intermediate apprenticeship and support the Marie Curie Great Daffodil Appeal orientation, race, colour, marital status, political progress through a range of qualifications during March.
All of our restaurants and pubs belief and nationality, or any other category culminating in a BA hons degree.
A total of sold the famous daffodil pins and raised more defined by law in all aspects of employment five General Managers graduated with a than 168,300 for the charity.
including recruitment, promotion, and Foundation Degree in FY 2016.
Although it is opportunities for training, pay and benefits.
understood that this route is not appropriate Big hearted brands, proud to for everyone, we are confident that we offer a The following table sets out our diversity serve those who serve true alternative to a traditional academic route balance as between men and women at the and that we have the building blocks in place We have continued to raise funds for Cancer end of FY 2016. to help produce our businesses leaders of Research UK.
Up and down the country our Men Women the future.
teams have been busy holding fundraising Directors 10 1 events, all of which have helped to raise over Rewarding and recognising 77,000 for the charity.
our people Other senior managers 26 10 In June, Toby Carvery showed their support All employees 22,070 23,083 Pickaperk, our benefits platform, continues to for the armed forces by offering all military be popular with our employees, with a spend personnel a free carvery on Armed Forces Day.
on discounted goods of 1.3m in FY 2016.
The offer was open to all military personnel, Attracting the best talent from serving troops and reserves to veterans and Many of our employees continue to enjoy the Last year we created 224 new jobs by opening cadets and around 7,000 meals were donated Dine with Us programme, where they can new retail sites across the UK.
by Toby Carvery teams across the country.
access their employee discount digitally when they eat in one of our businesses.
The discount Crown Carveries offer our armed forces Nurturing and developing increased to 33% this year, directly as a result of personnel active or veteran as well as all our people listening to feedback from the Your Say survey emergency service crews 10% off their food and the Company wishing to increase the bill all year round at their restaurants In 2016, we continued to evolve our youth reward offered to our employees.
Our Sizzling estate also offered the attraction strategy which aims to increase the discount in FY 2016.
The promotion has been quantity of 16yrs employees joining the c. 13,500 employees have received an award run in conjunction with Defences Discount Mitchells & Butlers business.
By partnering recognising their service to the business.
Service and Blue Light Cards and Savings for with Believe in Young People to source young Awards are made to employees for achieving Life Savers.
people for our work experience opportunities, service milestones between one year and and through working with HeadStart to 45 years.
A further c. 3,200 have been Once again, we supported the Royal British support local communities through social recognised across the year with specific, Legion Poppy Appeal selling thousands of integration and youth employability, we are ad hoc acknowledgements for their poppies to raise funds for thousands of serving steadily increasing the visibility of Mitchells & contribution for a job well done.
Our businesses raised Butlers as an employer of potential to a new c. 168,300 for the charity.
To satisfy the developmental and qualification programmes required by this We are committed to being a good neighbour Support for Birmingham population, in addition to our Hospitality and a responsible contributor to society, locally Childrens Hospital Management Apprenticeship launched in and nationally, by supporting our communities 2015, three new apprenticeship routes have We also support a local charity, close to many with both our time and expertise.
By supporting been established, providing greater range colleagues hearts, Birmingham Childrens our employees and businesses across a and breadth of opportunity for all of those Hospital.
spectrum of charitable activity and fundraising, who have the ambition of a long standing we continue to build strong relationships with The Retail Support Centre Social Committee and successful career within the sector.
our guests, our colleagues and our neighbours has organised a series of fundraising events for Of particular note is the creation and and give back to the communities in which Birmingham Childrens Hospital, with employees implementation of an enhanced Professional we trade.
taking part in a sponsored cycle in the office, Cookery Apprenticeship, providing learners quiz nights, a golf day and a number of raffles.
with high levels of culinary tutoring and Employee donations Over the course of FY 2016 M&B has so far support, enabling our business to have a raised over 6,000. programme greater confidence in our future frontline food capability.
The employee donations programme exists to help individual Mitchells & Butlers employees Over 400 young people have joined our and retired employees support a personal business on apprenticeships this year and over charity event or challenge of their choice and 1,000 existing employees have enrolled onto we made donations of around 3,200 to a large one of the apprenticeship opportunities open number of local and national causes including to them.
Although this represents significant Calvert Trust, Alzheimers Society and Breast progress, we aim to increase the number of 6,000 Cancer Now.
new apprenticeship places created and Raised for Birmingham Childrens Hospital 31 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016
