104 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report How the committee spent its time The committee is very conscious of possible overlap between its remit and The committee focused on the functions Mondi Limited social that of the DLC audit committee and the set out in Regulation 43 5 made under and ethics committee DLC sustainable development committee.
the South African Companies Act 2008, The committee therefore considers reports monitoring compliance by Mondi Limited from these two committees as they relate with the activities listed therein, having to the environment, labour, human rights, regard to relevant legislation, other legal product responsibility, risk management, requirements or prevailing codes of best whistle blowing, fraud and business practice as it relates to its operations in integrity and monitors compliance by Mondi South Africa.
Limited on those matters as they pertain to the responsibility of the committee.
It is pleasing to report a high level of compliance with statutory requirements and good progress on the many community-focused initiatives undertaken during the period under review.
Stephen Harris Chairman of the Mondi Limited social and Other matters addressed by the committee included: ethics committee Corporate citizenship Composition e Considered community development and Approximately 2,800 jobs have been created corporate social investment initiatives.
through Mondi Zimele to date.
Meeting Members Committee attendance throughout member two meetings the year since in the year Employment Equity and Broad BasedBlack Economic Empowerment BBBEE Stephen Harris February 2012, 2 chairman chairman since e Reviewed progress made against the employment with the result that Mondi Limited was, during the October 2015 equity targets set for the period 2013 to 2017. review period, measured against the previous Generic Codes.
In October 2016 Mondi Limited David February 2012 2 e Monitored the BBBEE status.
The Forestry had an independent assessment performed Hathorn Sector Code, which Mondi Limited would be which confirmed its status as a level 3 contributor.
measured against, had not yet been finalised Fred October 2015 2 This status will apply for a period of 12 months.
Phaswana The composition of the committee is Labour and employment matters in accordance with the requirements e Reviewed compliance by Mondi Limited with e Considered training and development.
of section 72 8 of the South African South African labour legislation which incorporates The committee noted the approximately 1,600 the decent work requirements prescribed by training initiatives embarked on during 2016, 87.1% Companies Act 2008 and its the International Labour Organization ILO.
of employees received training during the year associated regulations.
The committee noted specifically the various areas under consideration.
of employer employee interface and the progress e Considered various initiatives and procedures in made in addressing focus areas arising from the Other regular attendees place to achieve Mondi Limiteds transformation last employee survey.
e Non-executive directors who are not members of the committee e Executive management who present Consumer relations on relevant topics e Reviewed Mondi Limiteds customer relations e Reviewed Mondi Limiteds advertising policy initiatives as well as the levels of certification of its aimed at ensuring compliance with the Code of products used for food packaging.
Advertising Standards enforced by the Advertising Standards Authority of South Africa.
Environment, health and public safety e Reviewed Mondi Limiteds environmental e Reviewed Mondi Limiteds performance relating performance, including Effluent Load COD, to CO2e emissions, carbon-based energy Malodorous Gas TRS, Specific Contact Water and consumption, use of renewable resources for Waste to Landfill.
primary energy and electrical self-sufficiency.
Anti-corruption e Reviewed the requirements of the King III Code activities relating to the eradication of corruption of Good Practice with regard to the principles with specific reference to the UN Global Compact relating to ethical leadership, and Mondi Limiteds and the OECD Recommendations.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 105 DLC executive committee and company secretaries David Hathorn Andrew King Peter Oswald See full See full See full 78 78 78 54 54 47 biography biography biography Chief executive Chief executive officer Chief financial officer officer: Europe & International Division Appointed Experience Ron Traill January 2008 Ron has over 36 years experience in the paper industry.
He began his career as an industrial engineer with DRG 62 Committee membership Packaging Group, working in its Scottish paper mill.
He went on to hold a succession of posts within the company, Chief executive officer: Executive leading ultimately to his appointment as general manager.
Following DRGs acquisition by Sappi in 1990, he worked for 10 South Africa Division Qualifications years in a number of general management roles.
Graduated in mechanical He has also held senior operational positions with Fletcher Challenge and with Tullis Russell.
engineering and management Ron joined Mondi in 2003 as managing director of the tt pulp and paper mill in the Czech Republic, also assuming from Dundee Colleges in Scotland in 1980 responsibility for the Mondi packaging paper business in Ruomberok, Slovakia.
He then relocated to South Africa, being appointed Chief executive officer of the South Africa Division in January 2008.
Appointed Experience John Lindahl August 2011 Between 1985 and 2000 John had an extensive career in the forest industry, working in different operational managerial 57 Committee membership positions in Finland, the US and France in companies including M-real, Myllykoski and UPM.
At UPM he then moved on to Group Executive roles within corporate technology and investment coordination.
technical director Qualifications From the industry he moved on to consulting and engineering company Pyry, where he held a number of executive Graduated in pulp and paper positions in the forest industry business group, being involved in advisory services, pre-engineering studies and major engineering from the Technical implementation projects for the global Pulp and Paper Industry until 2011 when he joined Mondi.
University of Helsinki in 1985 and an MBA from Jyvaskyla External appointments University in 1996 None.
Experience Philip Philip Laubscher, who holds BProc and LLB degrees and is an attorney of the High Court of South Africa, was inLaubscher house counsel with national power utility Eskom for 15 years before joining Mondi in 1999 as head of legal services.
61 He was appointed company secretary of Mondi Limited in January 2001.
Company secretary Mondi Limited Experience Jenny Jenny Hampshire, a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries & Administrators, joined Mondi in May 2007 and Hampshire has held various roles in the company secretariat, the last four years as assistant company secretary.
She was formally 33 appointed company secretary of Mondi plc in December 2016.
Prior to joining Mondi Jenny worked for The BOC Group Company secretary plc in its company secretariat.
Mondi plc Philip and Jenny work together on the coordination of Mondis DLC structure.
