40 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Sustainability performance Growing responsibly Its a time of collaboration, collective action and holistic thinking, with an increased expectation for business to play a more active role.
Our approach is well aligned with the current global sustainable development agenda and provides a strong foundation for future sustainable profitable growth.
Stephen Harris Chairman of the DLC sustainable development committee Online sustainable development report 2016 Our Growing Responsibly model 10 action areas: Employee and A skilled Fairness and Sustainable Climate contractor safety and committed diversity in fibre change workforce the workplace Our goal is zero harm to Were promoting positive We consider climate change employees and contractors, change to support credible in our business decisions Were developing a The diversity of our workforce is and a safe and healthy certification systems that will through sound investments to culture that aims to inspire, one of our greatest strengths.
Overall, our safety meet increasing demand improve energy efficiency and engage and develop all our We promote fair working performance has improved for sustainable fibre.
responsible procurement people to reach their full conditions for a better, more steadily over the past five years We also manage our own of wood and fibre.
potential, while ensuring our diverse workplace.
and were among the leaders forests sustainably.
Our sustainably managed business can continue to grow 1 inour industry.
forests also play an important and succeed.
2 3 16 commitments, by 2020 : e Avoid work-related e Engage with our people to e Promote fair working e Maintain 100% FSC e Reduce specific employee and create a better workplace conditions in the workplace certification of our CO e emissions from 2 contractor fatalities owned and leased our pulp and paper mills by forestry operations and 15% by 2030 against e Prevent life-altering promote sustainable a 2014 baseline employee and forest management contractor injuries e Procure a minimum of 70% e Reduce TRCR by 5% of our wood from FSC or compared to 2015 baseline, PEFC certified sources with including new acquisitions the balance meeting our company minimum wood standard that complies with the standard for Controlled Wood FSC-STD-40-005 1 Based on total recordable case rate 2 Going forward, we will review and refine our commitment metrics as necessary to ensure they are appropriate and measurable 3 Climate commitment to 2030 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 41 The sustainability challenges we face as The model provides us with a framework to Looking ahead, we will continue to entrench a business and as a society are everdemonstrate, monitor and improve the way our Growing Responsibly model across our changing and increasingly complex.
sustainability is embedded in everything we business and work hard towards delivering To support our long-term strategy and to do across our businesses and throughout against our commitments.
deliver on our local priorities, we rely on a the value chain.
We support global initiatives such as the robust framework that builds on what we Our previous commitment period 2011- UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs have learned and achieved in the past.
2015 delivered significant achievements which will drive collective action at a global It also enables us to address current and throughout the business in reducing our level until 2030.
Our Growing Responsibly future risks and opportunities in a holistic, climate impact, emissions and waste: action areas and commitments outlined inclusive way.
This will help us to grow promoting responsible forestry: developing below reflect our aligned thinking with responsibly and to create value for our collaborative relationships critical to our the SDGs.
stakeholders, long into the future.
future success: and strengthening our We have been included in the FTSE4Good Growing responsibly has long been culture of safety and goal of zero harm.
Index Series since 2008 and the JSEs part of our philosophy and our Growing Socially Responsible Investment SRI Index Now, building on a strong foundation, Responsibly model was implemented since 2007. we are ready for 2020 and beyond.
The model includes 16 clearly defined 2020 commitments across 10 action areas with the climate commitment running to 2030.
10 action areas: Constrained Biodiversity and Supplier conduct Relationships with Solutions that resources and ecosystems and responsible communities create value environmental procurement for our customers We promote ecosystem We aim to enhance our stewardship to sustain social value to communities impacts Were taking steps We encourage sustainable, services that our businesses through effective stakeholder to encourage greater responsibly manufactured Our focus on operational and communities rely engagement and meaningful transparency and promote products and closer excellence drives efficiency on through sharing best social investments, using global fair working conditions by collaboration with our improvements to ensure practices and continued, frameworks that enable us to developing a responsible, customers and partners.
responsible use of water, long-term collaboration with address local priorities.
inclusive and sustainable reduction of waste and our stakeholders.
emissions, the cascading use of wood and development of resource-efficient products.
2 3 16 commitments, by 2020 : 4 e Reduce specific contact e Promote ecosystem e Encourage supply chain e Enhance social value e Encourage sustainable, water consumption from our stewardship in the transparency and promote to our communities responsibly pulp and paper mills by 5% landscapes where fair working conditions through effective produced products compared to a 2015 baseline we operate through together with our stakeholder engagement 4 continued multikey suppliers and meaningful e Reduce specific waste to stakeholder collaboration social investments landfill by 7.5% compared to a 2015 baseline 4 e Reduce specific NOx emissions from our pulp and paper mills by 7.5% compared to a 2015 baseline 4 e Reduce specific effluent load to the environment measure COD by 5% compared to a 2015 baseline 4 Figures reported in specific terms are normalised to saleable production tonnes 42 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Sustainability performance Global thinking, local action We have a zero tolerance policy towards discrimination and provide equal opportunities for all employees irrespective of origin, nationality, disability or gender.
Two of our nine board members were women and one of the three South African-based board members came from an  community in January 2017 we appointed Safety and health Tanya Fratto as an additional board Our ultimate safety goal is zero harm, member, so once Anne Quinn steps down with all employees and contractors after the AGMs, we will continue to have returning home safely to their families two women on our Boards.
While were among the South Africa Divisions management team leading safety performers in our were previously disadvantaged individuals Our people industry, we remain mindful that our 2015: 45%.
operations involve many high-risk We believe our diversity not Gender diversity 2016 Male % Female % activities.
In 2016, we continued to uniformity is key to Mondis future.
Directors 7 78 2 22 assess our risk management By openly engaging with our people, Senior managers 280 91 27 9 programme, in particular prioritising we work hard at ensuring their Employees 20,200 78 5,800 22 and addressing the top risks in all commitment to a business that acts our operations.
quickly, empowers them and offers a As at 31 December 2016 range of development opportunities.
In 2016, we had 237 recordable cases in We consider applications for employment our operations.
This equates to a TRCR In 2016, we employed on average in a fair and balanced way, seeking to cater of 0.66, a 13% reduction against our 2015 around 25,400 people across more than for individual requirements, disabilities baseline of 0.76 including acquisitions.
The Fundamental Rights and needs.
Group policy ensures training, We experienced no fatalities or life-altering Convention of the International Labour career development and promotion is injuries during the year.
However, in February Organization and the United Nations Global consistent and fair, including for people 1 2017 a contractor lost his life in our South Compact UNGC guide our approach with disabilities as far as is possible.
In the African forestry operations following a timber to employment.
Although labour and event of an employee suffering a lifevehicle accident.
A detailed investigation is collective bargaining practices differ from altering or life-threatening injury at work, underway, and we will continue to focus on country to country, basic rights and fair we facilitate appropriate medical treatment the top risks at each site to ensure continuous employment standards including fair and rehabilitation.
Every effort is made 2 improvement in our controls and safety wages apply throughout the business, are to support their continued employment programmes.
All of our pulp and paper mills managed locally, and are guided by Group with Mondi.
with the exception of Pine Bluff mill US policies and standards.
In 2016, we devoted around 790,000 hours and 79% of our converting operations have Mondi has formal and informal processes of employee and contractor time to training international safety management system to communicate with and engage and development 2015: 827,000 hours, OHSAS 18001 in place.
In addition of which around 38% related to safety Building on the Top 5 Risks approach to electronic communications and and health topics.
In 2016, The Mondi introduced in 2013 and 2014, we continued publications, regular local briefing sessions Academy conducted over 100 seminars to focus on the top risks in all our by managers focus on safety, operational and programmes, attended by more than operations.
Safety training initiatives were objectives and performance, financial 800 Mondi employees.
a key component, particularly targeted at performance and the Groups values The Group has a number of performancefirst line supervisors.
The second phase of and culture.
We also regularly conduct related pay schemes that reward this work is currently underway, identifying performance and development reviews at employees for the pursuit and achievement and addressing the next set of high-priority a local level, alongside formal and informal of business objectives, and the majority of risks at each operation.
Our Group-wide our employees participate in these schemes.
employee survey is designed to consult Several of our operations have on-site 1 A UN policy initiative that aligns businesses with employees on specific issues and track health and wellbeing facilities, and we offer 10 universally accepted principles in the areas our progress.
90% of employees took part of human rights, labour, environment and antiwellness programmes at many of our sites in our most recent survey completed in corruption and offices.
In 2016, 3,273 employees and 2 Ensuring that wages paid for a standard working November 2015 2013: 89% and, overall, contractors participated in the HIV AIDS week shall at least meet legal or industry minimum there was a higher level of engagement voluntary programme in our South African standards and shall always be sufficient to meet compared to the previous survey.
the basic needs of our employees and to provide operations, with 2,047 opting for testing.
some discretionary income Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 43 Communities To our local communities, we are an industrial neighbour, employer, purchaser, energy generator, land user and manager of local resources.
We have a significant positive socio-economic impact, including employment and generation of business, supporting infrastructure development and paying local and regional taxes.
We aim to enhance our social value through effective stakeholder engagement and meaningful investments using global frameworks to address local priorities.
Forests and ecosystems As an active member of our communities, we work hard to maintain constructive and The global population is growing Were not party to any form of deforestation open relationships with local stakeholders.
and demand for forest products or illegal logging.
Our work is informed by our Socioincreasing.
We have a critical Economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT In 2016, all of our owned and leased forests responsibility to ensure the forests process, which helps ensure open and in Russia and South Africa maintained we own, lease and source wood from transparent dialogue, and is facilitated by their FSC and ISO 14001 certification are managed in a way that secures an independent third party.
Our operations standards, and our forests in Russia their long-term biological integrity, 3 plan and deliver local engagement through also maintained their PEFC certification.
Our aim formal Community Engagement Plans.
25% of our owned and leased land is set is to optimise timber production aside for conservation and we focus on In the last five years, weve invested around while maintaining biodiversity and protecting water resources and freshwater 46 million in community projects that ecosystem services, ultimately ecosystems on and next to our forests support health, education, infrastructure contributing to more resilient and mills.
and enterprise in the communities where production landscapes.
In 2016 we launched two We continue to support WWF to expand We manage around 2 million hectares of pilot projects in Poland and South Africa the reach and influence of the 25-yearnatural boreal forest in Russia and around that are exploring ways to develop a old WWF-Mondi Wetlands Programme.
0.3 million hectares of plantation forests methodology with indicators to measure In Russia, WWF Boreal Forest Platform, in South Africa, including the identification social and business value created by launched in 2015, is bringing stakeholders and protection of high conservation our community investments.
Ultimately, together across the boreal landscape, value HCV areas.
FSC certification is we want to develop metrics that can be especially north-west Russia, to develop an important part of our management consolidated at Group-level to reflect a shared understanding of responsible approach, assuring stakeholders that our total community footprint.
we meet globally accepted standards for be able to measure our impact more 3 Lease exchange in 2016 in Russia resulted in a sustainable forest management and that effectively and know that we are making a new lease of around 39,000 hectares which will be HCV areas are identified and protected.
FSC certified during 2017 44 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Sustainability performance Global thinking, local action We report our GHG emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, published by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development WBCSD and the World Resources Institute, and have reported our scope 1 and 2 GHG data in compliance with ISO 14064:1-2006.
ERM CVS has provided reasonable assurance on our scope 1 and 2 GHG data in accordance with ISO 14064:3-2006.
See their full statement at www.
Specic CO e emissions 2 from our pulp and paper mills tonnes per tonne ofsaleableproduction Specic scope 1 Specic Total CO e 2 Specic scope 2 1.00 0.87 0.82 0.82 0.81 0.80 0.76 0.60 0.40 0.20 0.00 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 1 Energy and climate change In 2015, we committed to reduce specific 2015 restated to include Pine Bluff mill US 2 CO e emissions from our pulp and 2 We believe business has an important paper mills by 15% by 2030, against a 1 Specific: calculated in tonnes of CO e per tonne of 2 role to play in reducing greenhouse saleable production 2014 baseline.
In 2016, our specific CO e 2 gas emissions and tackling climate 2 GHGs are often compared on the basis of their emissions were 0.76 tonnes per tonne of estimated potential to cause global warming.
As an energy-intensive saleable production, demonstrating a 8.9% CH4 and N2O emissions are the most relevant for business, its critical we manage our 3 reduction against the 2014 base year.
the pulp and paper industry.
Every gram of CH4 climate footprint by optimising energy is equivalent to 21 grams of CO2 and each N2O 4 In 2016, our pulp and paper mills scope1 gram is equivalent to 310 grams of CO2.
Total GHG and process efficiencies and utilising emissions can be calculated as the sum of several GHG emissions were 4.1 million tonnes renewable energy, supported by GHGs expressed as the equivalent amount of CO e 2015: 4.5 million tonnes, while 2 ongoing investments in low-carbon CO2, abbreviated as CO2e specific scope 1 emissions were 0.65 energy technologies.
3 Excludes Raubling mill performance from tonnes per saleable tonne of production 2014 baseline Our approach to reducing carbon 2015: 0.7 tonnes.
Additionally, our converting 4 Scope 1 emissions: Total GHG emissions from sources owned or controlled by Mondi and its emissions involves targeted energyoperations scope 1 emissions were subsidiaries.
This includes CO2e from fossil fuels and related investments across our pulp 0.1 million tonnes 2015: 0.1 million tonnes.
processes, Group leased owned vehicles, waste and and paper mills.
Combined with good waste water treatment, from make-up chemicals, and 5 Our pulp and paper mills scope2 from other GHG gases management and sharing best practice emissions amounted to 0.7 million 5 Scope 2 emissions: Total GHG emissions through our specialist network, we aim from sources that are related to generation of tonnes CO e in 2016 2015: 0.8 million 2 to improve energy efficiency, reduce purchased energy outside the Group boundaries tonnes, while specific scope 2 emissions emissions and replace fossil fuels with were 0.11 tonnes per saleable tonne renewable biomass-based energy where of production 2015: 0.12 tonnes.
Additionally, our converting operations Sustainably managed forests also play an scope 2 emissions were 0.2 million tonnes important role in mitigating climate change.
We contribute to this through credibly certifying and responsibly managing our forests and by procuring wood exclusively from certified and controlled sources.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 45 Operational excellence Using natural resources wisely and managing our impacts is vital for securing sustainable growth.
We strive for operational excellence, drive efficiency improvements and invest in Best Available Techniques BAT and good management practices to ensure responsible use of water, to reduce waste and Supply chain emissions, and to address our biodiversity impact.
In an increasingly globalised and We will assess the sustainability aspects connected economy, the business of our resins, films and other raw materials We contribute to the development of benefits of a transparent supply and services through our central supplier policies that can help us and other chain are clear from reducing risks relationship management SRM system.
companies in our sector shift towards a 6 and realising efficiencies to driving SRM will provide a consistent framework circular economy by promoting greater performance and collaboration.
across the Group for selecting, monitoring, resource productivity and minimising waste Were taking steps to improve assessing, managing and developing and emissions.
This includes our work with supply chain transparency and our supplier base.
It is currently being the WBCSD, WWF and the Confederation promote fair working conditions for a rolled out to all our businesses in a of European Paper Industries CEPI.
responsible, inclusive and sustainable phased approach.
Water is vital to our business.
Every company in our supply chain must use it wisely and efficiently, and manage it All our businesses are guided by our adhere to our purchasing principles and responsibly at all times.
We reduce waste Group-wide supply chain and procurement Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which to landfill by avoiding waste where possible policies and standards.
covers environmental management, safety and by finding reuse or recycling solutions issues, social metrics and governance.
for our remaining waste streams.
We focus We focus on three main procurement on reducing emissions of Total Reduced areas: wood and fibre: resins, films and We support the UK governments Sulphur TRS compounds from kraft pulp other raw materials: and transport and introduction of the Modern Slavery mills, as they can create an odour nuisance logistics.
Fibre is one of our primary raw Act 2015, and we encourage more and give rise to public complaints.
materials and we use forest certification transparency in the supply chain to jointly as the best assurance that the fibre address the risks and opportunities.
We made good progress in 2016 in the we source comes from sustainably We updated our sustainability policies more efficient use of natural resources managed forests.
We maintain FSC and in 2016, including our supply chain and and in reducing our emissions and waste.
ISO14001 certification of all our owned and responsible sourcing policy and our labour We reduced specific contact water leased forests.
We have engaged consumption by 1.3% against 2015 in our with our businesses and mapped our pulp and paper mills.
We reduced our For all wood that is not from our own supply chain to better understand potential specific waste to landfill by 11% against forests, we source credibly certified fibre areas of human rights and other risks, 2015.
TRS emissions were reduced by wherever possible and, where its not and will develop measures to address 27% against 2015.
Specific effluent load possible, we ensure all non-certified wood and respond to these appropriately.
COD was reduced by 5% against 2015. and fibre products we procure comply with Our statement on the UK Modern Slavery 6 A circular economy, in contrast to a linear economy the standard for Controlled Wood Act will be published in June 2017. which follows a model of take, make and dispose, FSC-STD-40-005 as a minimum.
In 2016, is one that is restorative and regenerative by design, 67% of our total procured wood was FSC and which aims to keep products, components and materials at their highest utility and value at all times or PEFC certified 2015: 66%.
Ellen MacArthur Foundation, 2010 Online Sustainable development report 2016 46 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Sustainability performance Working together By working together, we believe it is possible to achieve more impact, innovation, sustainability and scale than we can by working alone.
This drives us to collaborate with others, building our shared understanding of sustainability issues and developing the best solutions, together.
Customers Suppliers Investors With more and more people wanting We engage with our suppliers to Theres wide and growing recognition to make the right choices, consumer develop practical, risk-based solutions among the investment community of the interest in responsible products to the social and environmental links between sustainable operations and services is greater than ever.
challenges we all face in the value chain: and long-term financial success.
This is driving demand for increased to promote fair working conditions: Weve seen increasing interest in our transparency across the whole and to deliver innovative, sustainable sustainability performance by investors value chain as well as opportunities products and solutions.
and ESG analysts in recent years.
to collaborate with our customers We regularly share our sustainability e Regular assessments of key fibre and to deliver innovative, sustainable performance and take feedback from non-fibre suppliers packaging solutions.
investors and analysts to inform our e Engaging with certification systems reporting and management practices.
e Regular customer satisfaction surveys such as FSC and PEFC to encourage e Annual reports e Close collaboration with customers sustainable forestry practices and on product innovation secure long-term wood fibre supplies e Questionnaires e Participation in a wide e Monitoring and managing risks and e Ad hoc questions and requests range of benchmarking and opportunities in the supply chain e Telephone calls and meetings transparency initiatives through our central SRM system e Roadshows e Customer events and exhibitions e Supplier collaborations and e Events including results presentations partnerships to develop strategic, e Disclosure of our sustainability and capital markets days long-term relationships and performance to our customers via e Membership of the FTSE4Good and improve performance EcoVadis and other platforms JSE SRI indices Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 47 Communities Employees Global partnerships and initiatives Ongoing, transparent dialogue with Employees are the core of our business, our communities helps us to address and open and honest dialogue is crucial.
We believe in global partnerships that challenges, understand and manage Alongside day-to-day management help bring about change, sustainability our risks, generate opportunities and contact, we engage in discussions and and scale.
We work closely with others improve our business performance.
feedback about our values and culture to maximise the shared value we To understand where our impacts lie and as expressed in the Mondi Way.
create, contributing to multi-stakeholder what our stakeholders expect, we use Informal channels of communication collaborations that seek sustainable several different approaches, notably our and formal surveys give our employees solutions along the entire value chain.
Introduced in 2016, a voice to help us understand their Our collaborations and memberships we also carry out impact assessments concerns and improve our performance, include, among others: of our voluntary community investments particularly around working conditions.
and programmes to determine the e Global partnership with WWF e Group-wide employee survey effectiveness, value and success of e The UNGC e Regular local briefing sessions our interventions.
e WBCSDs forest solutions group by managers e SEAT process e The Cambridge Institute for e Electronic communications e Community Engagement Plans CEPs Sustainability Leadership CISL and publications e Open days and visits to our sites e CEPI e Divisional and local intranets e Partnerships with communities e Local management and and other stakeholders in performance reviews development initiatives e Internal conferences and e Social impact assessments to leadership forums measure the value we create on the ground
