Corporate Responsibility Report The Board considers that the management of safety, health, environment, social and ethical matters forms akey element of effective corporate governance which inturn supports the strategy, long-term performance andsustainability of the business.
This helps to achieve a common awareness amongst Employees employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the Moneysupermarket Group wants to be a great place to work.
Passion performance of the Group.
about our mission, doing the right thing for customers, innovation and performance are key assets for the Group and its future success.
The A robust employee engagement survey process is also in place to Group has clear priorities for how it: ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and that engages with its employees, recognising the different needs the Group can take action based on employee feedback.
During they have: 2016 we shortened the survey and asked more qualitative questions creates sustainable employment opportunities that attract to provide a deeper understanding of why employees feel or a talented and diverse range of new people into all levels of indicate a specific rating.
the business: invests in the future to ensure each individual can perform to the The Group is committed to an equal opportunities policy.
The Group best of their ability: and aims to ensure that no employee is discriminated against, directly or ensures it is constantly seeking to do the right things, particularly indirectly, on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic and national origins, in how people are treated throughout the Group.
sexual orientation or gender, marital status, disability, religion or belief, being part time or on the grounds of age.
The Group actively encourages employee involvement and consultation.
It places considerable emphasis on keeping its The Group offers a range of benefits which help employees share in employees informed of the Groups activities via formal business the success of the Group.
These include both an employee Share performance updates, regular update briefings, regular team Incentive Plan and a Sharesave Scheme.
The Groups full range of meetings, the Groups intranet site which enables easy access to the benefits reflects the differing needs and interests of its employees.
latest Group information as well as Group policies, and the Particular focus is given to contributing towards employees circulation to employees of relevant information including corporate Snowdon Challenge: employees took part in the 2016 Snowdon Challenge to raise funds for The National Autistic Society 32 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Investment in employee training 410,000 well-being.
Employees have the opportunity to buy additional Health and safety holidays, medical cover, gym memberships, as well as benefitting The Group recognises the importance of health and safety and the from discounts on products and services for the home and family positive benefits to the Group.
The Group has a health and safety life.
Recognising that employees can require advice and support for policy which is communicated to all employees through a health and a range of personal and professional reasons, a free comprehensive safety handbook, which is regularly reviewed and updated.
employee assistance programme is also available.
The Group also has a wide variety of flexible working arrangements in place.
Supporting students In order to build links between the Group and local schools and The Group has invested 410,000 in employee training programmes colleges, work experience and placements are offered to a number in 2016.
During the year we launched online training modules of students.
In doing so, the Group strives to make work placements covering our revised Code of Conduct, our Customer First positive, challenging and relevant to participants current studies and programme and data protection.
Every employee is required to their future job prospects.
complete the online training and these also form part of the induction process for new employees.
Business ethics Behaving ethically is an essential part of working for our Group.
It is The Group has a wide-ranging performance management system, fundamental to how we do business and is vitally important to the designed to ensure that all employees are able to fulfil their potential reputation and success of our Group.
In 2016 we revised our Code and contribute as much as possible to the achievement of the of Conduct which applies to all employees.
The Code sets out our Groups goals whilst applying the Groups values.
commitment to: behave ethically: Gender diversity comply with relevant laws and regulations: and 338 of our employees are male and 244 female.
In our executive do the right thing.
management team, seven members are male and one is female whilst on our Board, six of the Directors are male and two female.
In addition, we introduced an Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy for suppliers and a separate one for employees and provided training to all employees on issues of modern slavery in conjunction with the Code of Conduct e-learning module.
87% We also have anti-bribery, competition law and whistleblowing 58% policies which incorporate the Groups key principles and standards governing business conduct towards our key stakeholder groups.
We believe we should treat all of these groups with honesty and integrity.
42% 13% Employees Executive management team Male Female 75% 25% Board of Directors Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 33 Corporate Responsibility Report continued Total donated 100,834 to The National Autistic Society by the Group and its employees in 2015 & 2016 In addition to the.
Community initiative, the Group and its Communities and charities employees continue to select and support a Charity of the Year on The Group seeks to make a positive difference by being an active an annual basis.
contributor to the communities that it operates within.
Community initiative was launched in 2008 and has The 2015 and 2016 Charity of the Year was the National Autistic continued to develop during 2016.
The initiative is focused on Society.
The charity provides help and support to those affected providing support to charities and community groups located by autism.
Over the course of the year the Groups employees within a few miles of the Groups office in Ewloe, so support is raised 21,522 for The National Autistic Society with the Group targeted primarily in Flintshire and Cheshire.
also donating 21,522 bringing the total donated to the National Autistic Society during the two year period to 100,834.
A volunteer group of employees meets regularly to review requests for donations and to allocate funds according to agreed donation guidelines.
Employees are also active in researching and seeking out local good causes that the Group can help support.
The initiative has been effective at harnessing the energy and enthusiasm of the Groups employees to benefit the communities within which it operates.
In 2016 the Group made 6,000 per quarter available for the.
This funding has been channelled via the Charities Aid Foundation, enabling the Group to make gross donations to registered charities.
Over the course of the year the Group has supported over 30 charities and community groups including: Clwyd Alyn Housing ReFest Wepre School Ewloe Employees raced in the Chester Dragon Boat Races to raise money for Golftyn CP School The National Autistic Society Hawarden - Friends of Penarlag School Empowering Youth Foundation Towards the end of 2016, employees were asked to submit Penyffordd & Penymynydd Toddlers group nominations for the Charity of the Year in 2017.
The nominations Frodsham Community Association were shortlisted to three charities, with Shelter winning the Domestic Abuse Safety Unit highest number of votes.
Shelter provides support and advice to RDA Riding School Wrexham people who are struggling with bad housing or homelessness.
Friends of 1ST Enable Merseyside Autistic Children Society The Group launched a volunteering scheme in October 2011 Disability Skiing Wales through which the Group supports a total of 60 volunteering days Parkinsons UK Chester & District Groups per year to help those who are less fortunate, and thereby make a Banardos Flintshire Young Carers valuable contribution to our local community.
During the year employees volunteered in a diverse range of activities and also took part in the sponsored Snowdon Charity Challenge 2016'.
34 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements MoneySavingExpert has also continued to donate to The Total CO e by emission type in 2016 2 Total CO e by emission type in 2016 2 MoneySavingExpert Charity, which is a grant giving charity Total CO e by emission type in 2016 2 Electricity, heat, dedicated to improving information and education about debt, Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for steam and cooling money and consumer issues with 60,000 donated in 2016.
In Electricity, heat, own use purchased for addition to this, MoneySavingExpert supported a number of steam and cooling Combustion of fuel and operation own use purchased for charities including ShelterBox, CAP UK and the Samaritans with of facilities 96.79% own use Combustion of donations totalling a further 30,000. fuel and operation 3.21% Combustion of of facilities fuel and operation Environment of facilities The Group is committed to reducing energy and raw material usage to support environmental and financial performance and has implemented the following initiatives to support this aim: the installation of solar panels at the Groups Ewloe office resulting in energy savings of approximately 23,763 kwh during Greenhouse gas GHG emissions 2016: Tonnes of CO e the continued replacement of energy efficient bulbs with higher 2 2016 2015 efficiency LEDs: the replacement of all external lighting with higher efficiency LEDs: Emissions from: and Combustion of fuel and the recycling, via one of our suppliers, of waste oil from our on-site operation of facilities 24.4 72.0 catering into useful products such as biofuels.
Electricity, heat, steam and The Group estimates that during 2016 it recycled on average over cooling purchased for own use 734.7 867.6 97.7% of its commercial waste.
Companys chosen intensity measurement: tonnes of CO e 2 Greenhouse gas GHG emissions per m revenue 2.39 3.33 This section includes our mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.
Emissions reported correspond with our financial year.
We have included emissions from both our owned and leased assets for which we are responsible.
Emissions are predominantly from gas combustion and electricity use at our offices and data centres.
We have reported on all material emission sources which we deem ourselves to be responsible for.
Emission factors are from UK government conversion factor guidance current for the year reported.
In order to express our annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable factor associated with our activities, we have used revenue as our intensity ratio as this is a relevant indication of our growth and is aligned with our business strategy.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 35
