38 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY VALUES, STRATEGY AND TONE FROM THE TOP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IS INTEGRAL TO THE MORGAN GROUP: IT MEANS A COMMITMENT TO BEHAVING WITH INTEGRITY AND HAVING A POSITIVE IMPACT ON EMPLOYEES, STAKEHOLDERS AND THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH THE GROUP WORKS.
Morgan values Tone from the top Doing business the right way, ethically Morgans Core Values Statement is the guiding The Board is ultimately accountable for and safely, is fundamental to the way principle for the Groups global approach to corporate responsibility and receives regular we do business.
It is the top priority corporate responsibility.
This underpins the reports on RBP, EHS and global talent for the Group.
Groups commitment to doing business in the management.
right way: limiting the impact of its operations PETE RABY on the environment: protecting and The senior management team recognises the CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER developing its people: and supporting the need to lead by example.
The Chief Executive communities where it works.
Officer CEO takes the lead on doing business in the right way, whilst the Chief Financial Officer CFO is responsible for the Groups Morgan strategy approach to EHS.
They are supported by the This firm commitment to doing business in the Divisional and global business unit executive right way is integral to the Group in continuing teams together with functional heads with to be one of the worlds very best advanced specific responsibility for environment, health materials companies, where corporate and safety, legal compliance and human responsibility is a differentiator.
Tone from the top has been central Responsible Business Programme RBP, to the 2016 message across the Group, through Environment, health and safety EHS the restatement of strategy, its ethical and safe programme and the approach to Morgans business approach, leadership briefings on RBP people, all support the aim of creating and EHS, as well as a regular training sessions long-term sustainable shareholder value.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 39 Implementation CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY How the Policies are cascaded The RBP Policies and procedures are mandated across the Group and apply to Doing business in the right way Training all employees.
The RBP is the Group-wide ethics and Raising awareness of and educating employees compliance programme, launched in 2010. on Group compliance policies and the The main method for the internal It provides a policy and compliance framework applicable laws and regulations is a communication of Group policies, procedures underpinning the Groups commitment to fundamental part of the RBP.
and other RBP or EHS updates is through the doing business in the right way, and ensures Group intranet, hard copies are made available a common approach.
Delivering a programme of this nature across locally at particular sites where connection more than 30 countries raises a number of may be limited.
The core elements of the RBP are policies challenges including language, culture and guidance, training education, compliance risk logistics.
For this reason, feedback is sought Regular training and awareness is also built assessments, monitoring and assurance from all participants to ensure that the into e-learning modules and all face-to-face through certifications, Internal Audit and site programme develops year on year and is materials.
relevant to each region and its employees rather than taking a one size fits all approach.
How the training is given In 2016 the RBP training focus has been Policies Annual training in 2016 included: on anti-bribery, competition, contract RBP Policies are available to all employees in risk management and trade compliance.
13 languages, together with related manuals e-learning modules on human rights, Presentations and supporting materials and guidelines.
These require employees anti-bribery and ethics, anti-trust and were provided in 13 languages to facilitate to operate in accordance not only within contract risk management.
Each of these the cascade of core elements of this training applicable laws and regulations, but also in line requires a 100% test score in order to new employees, graduate trainees, with internal rules and reporting requirements to pass.
and existing employees undergoing relating to areas such as ethical business Externally facilitated training for local refresher training.
behaviour, trade compliance, hospitality, managers and site-based compliance gifts, donations and sponsorships.
Outcomes of the risk assessments In-person training by Group Compliance In 2015 the Group-wide bribery risk These policies also apply, to the extent staff at selected sites to support online assessments focused on additional support, appropriate, to Morgans business partners webinar cascade training.
monitoring and training for a number of the including agents, joint venture partners Groups businesses including those in China and third-party representatives.
The RBP Group-wide induction training continues and South America.
Guide for Representatives summarises the to be supported and developed by Group ethical principles the Group requires its Compliance with the aim of ensuring that The 2016 assessment reviewed a number of representatives to adhere to in order standard guidance and practices are applied perceived risks, which included the location of to act on behalf of the Group.
business, location of customers, type of third party and market sector.
This informed a All policies, manuals and guidelines are Risk assessment review of third parties in the delivery channel subject to annual review.
Annual compliance risk assessments across the and a refresh of the evaluation procedures Group help to identify those businesses which for the 2017 programme.
have a higher risk of a compliance breach, these are often associated with high-risk territories.
These high-risk businesses receive additional focus and support including further training, and guidance.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 40 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Effectiveness During 2016, Internal Audit identified a Group Compliance plans for 2017 Annual certification number of corrective actions at a number of During 2017, the Group plans to further Divisional presidents and all functional heads the sites they visited for audit within the year, develop ethical business behaviours and are required on an annual basis to certify that which included i competitor contact and safety throughout the business by enhancing the businesses functions they are responsible trade association membership reporting a number of key areas including the for have implemented and complied in full with requirements to be improved, ii timely development of greater transparency in supply Group policies or declared any exceptions.
completion of RBP induction training by new chains, further standardisation in business employees, and iii recommunication of gifts practices and refreshed communication This certification forms an integral part of and hospitality procedures in local languages.
This will be achieved through the Groups system of internal controls.
These matters have been addressed in the continued development and improvement of: No material exceptions were declared in compliance visits referred to above and Online e-learning modules.
respect of 2016. through cascade training provided by Review of the Group Compliance training management teams.
strategy to meet requirements of the new This process is supplemented by annual Divisional structure implemented in 2016. site-level certification, where relevant Ethics hotline Greater visibility through verification and employees certify that they understand and The ethics hotline, operated by the audit activities.
are compliant with the RBP and its related independent third-party company Expolink, Enhanced third-party management policies and manuals.
was in place throughout the year.
employees who are aware of, or suspect, Compliance visits misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, abuse of Continuing strong delivery of consistent In 2016 members of Group Legal and the Group assets or violations of any Group policy messaging across the Group to enhance Compliance function, as well as Internal to report these confidentially without fear awareness of standard procedures and Audit, visited a number of sites and met with of retribution should they feel they cannot use requirements.
management and local employees to discuss a local channel.
The hotline includes local and assess compliance practices, processes free-phone numbers in each of the countries and issues.
These visits are a means of in which the Group operates, with real-time monitoring and obtaining assurance on translators available as necessary.
the efficacy of the RBP at business level and provide an opportunity to support Issues raised through the ethics hotline or the individual business through local training via other channels are followed up by the and face-to-face dialogue.
Company Secretary, Group Compliance, Human Resources functions, or members Internal Audit of senior management teams as appropriate.
Internal Audit monitors adherence to key RBP Further investigation may be conducted processes including completion of site-level through Internal Audit and reported through training, RBP in induction processes, the Audit Committee as required.
Where compliance with key elements of RBP policies appropriate, disciplinary action up to and and the filing of reporting forms.
Internal Audit including dismissal is taken and or additional also ensures that the ethics hotline and guidance and training provided.
its availability, are adequately promoted at site level.
The Audit Committee annually monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the ethics hotline and the follow-up investigation processes by considering the number of calls, which countries they came from and the results of the investigations.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 41 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS IS COMMITTED TO PROTECTING THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF EMPLOYEES AND OTHERS AFFECTED BY ITS OPERATIONS.
IT ALSO SEEKS TO MINIMISE THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF ITS ACTIVITIES AND MAXIMISE THE POSITIVE EFFECTS OF ITS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES.
THE GROUPS ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY EHS PROGRAMMES DELIVER REAL BUSINESS BENEFITS WHILST ENSURING ITS OBLIGATIONS TO STAKEHOLDERS ARE MET.
The Groups safety-related leading indicators We are dedicated to creating a positive 2016 highlights were extended and embedded with the safety culture based on openness, Health and safety performance improved launch of two mobile apps for the reporting transparency and responsibility.
in the year with a 42% reduction in the of near misses and for monitoring visible number of Lost Time Accidents from 91 to We support a safe working culture through safety leadership activities.
53 and a 41% reduction in the Lost Time investment and training.
The percentage Morgan developed and launched a new We engage with our people to continuously of working time lost due to accidents and EHS Framework.
This Framework covers improve safety knowledge, reporting and work-related ill health was also reduced 10 key risk areas against which sites performance through our commitment by 32% and the number of days lost was carried out a gap analysis and developed to Morgans thinkSAFE programme.
Environmental performance improved in An EHS leadership committee was created The Group is also committed to minimising key areas over the Groups two-year target to help develop and drive future EHS the impact of its business on the environment period 2014-16 with a 10% reduction in strategy for the Group.
and maximising the positive environmental CO e intensity, a 12% reduction in energy 2 benefits of its products.
Examples of A new EHS Compliance Audit Programme intensity, a 3% reduction in waste intensity Morgans products which help enhance the was launched with an external global and an improvement in the recycling rate environmental performance and efficiency audit provider and an internal EHS audit of 12 percentage points.
Water intensity of the Groups customers are included in programme with training for internal was unchanged over the two-year period.
Thus the Group achieved its targets to Morgan participated in the Carbon 1 reduce CO e and energy intensity by 2 Under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Disclosure Project CDP 2016 and 5% and to improve the recycling rate over Report and Directors Report Regulations achieved a score of Awhich places the the two years 2014-16 but was behind its 2013, the Group is required to report its Group joint top of the CDPs FTSE 350 targets to reduce waste and water intensity annual greenhouse gas emissions for the year Industrial sector.
This ranking testifies by 5% over the period.
This information is to the strength of the Groups climate shown on page 48 and includes the CO The momentum of thinkSAFE, the 2 change and energy related disclosure due to energy use which is further analysed Groups safety performance improvement and performance.
in this section, as well as other sources of programme, was sustained with a series greenhouse gases.
of preventative quarterly safety briefings.
Morgan Advanced Materials is committed to Topics covered were Slips, Trips and Falls, conducting all its activities in a manner that 1.
Carbon Dioxide Equivalent the amount of Take 5 for Safety 5S, Gas Safety and achieves high standards of health and safety carbon dioxide or the amount of non-CO greenhouse 2 Bright, clean and thinkSAFE.
for employees and others affected by its gas with the equivalent global warming potential.
Morgan also carried out 21 two-day operations.
This commitment is reflected thinkSAFE train-the-trainer sessions for in the Groups core health and safety values senior managers with a focus on set out below and which are available in behavioural safety coaching, feedback and 17 languages: team communications.
These managers We are committed to creating a culture rolled out the training to leaders down and environment that is zero harm with to supervisor level.
no accidents or illness due to our activities.
We encourage and expect our employees and contractors to be passionate about safety.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 42 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued EHS Policy Morgans Group-level EHS management EHS Policy effectiveness Morgans EHS Policy applies to all Group processes include: The Group monitors the effectiveness of businesses worldwide: it forms the basis its EHS Policy through the external EHS The external assurance of selected EHS for the Executive Committee and Compliance Audit Programme, the internal data by ERM Certification and Verification management oversight and implementation EHS audit programme, the review of Services ERM CVS.
The assurance report and has been communicated across all sites performance against a series of Group-wide from ERM CVS is on page 47. within the Group.
The Policy is regularly KPIs, the external assurance programme and The EHS Compliance Audit Programme.
reviewed and is published on the Groups by participating in a number of external This was re-launched during the year and website.
initiatives as further described below.
is now carried out by the same external audit provider world-wide.
This helps The summary charts on pages 43 to 46 EHS Policy implementation to ensure consistency and facilitates the represent the Groups EHS performance, Morgans EHS governance procedures are effective sharing of best practice across the covering all production sites during the year.
centred on its EHS Policy, which forms the Group.
Audits are conducted against the basis of the Groups EHS management systems Morgan EHS Framework with a focus Environmental intensity KPIs are reported and processes.
This is achieved through on high-risk items.
The programme also at constant currency and, where necessary, performance monitoring, risk assessment and covers the EHS management systems historic EHS data is restated to reflect changes the management and mitigation of identified and the EHS KPIs reported by each site in reporting methodology and to ensure risks to help provide continuous improvement and helps ensure compliance with local year-on-year consistency.
in EHS performance in support of the Groups regulations and good management strategic priorities.
All the Groups manufacturing The independent external assurance facilities are reviewed on a three-year performed by ERM CVS covered the Groups The Group is committed to providing effective rolling cycle.
Accordingly, 24 sites were Lost Time Accident Frequency rate, CO e leadership in pursuit of an injury-free and 2 audited during 2016.
The audit reports are intensity, energy intensity, waste intensity, environmentally responsible work place reviewed by the Director, Environment, water intensity and the waste recycling rate.
and the Chief Executive Officer and the Health and Safety and by members of The Assurance Report from ERM CVS operational management team are responsible the Executive Committee and Regional is set out on page 47. for EHS performance, with each site having a Executive teams.
Action items are tracked point of accountability.
There are EHS leaders through a formal follow-up process.
The Group also participates in a number in each region and within each business.
This Formal training as an integral part of the of external initiatives that help to benchmark global network of specialists reports to their implementation of the Groups EHS Policy.
These respective regional management team and This is undertaken at a regional level and include the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP are responsible for improving the standards tailored to business-specific risks and in respect of the Groups climate changeof EHS management and performance across opportunities, with Group-level support related strategies, risks, management and the Groups businesses.
In 2016, Morgan achieved a Monthly performance reporting to Group score of Aplacing it joint top of the CDPs and regional executives against the Group FTSE 350 Industrial sector.
This reflects the KPIs by all Group sites.
The data is subject Groups performance, and the depth and to regular review and challenge at Group quality of climate change data disclosed to level with reporting of performance to investors and the global marketplace through the Executive Committee and the Board.
Taking site openings and closures into account, Morgan Advanced Materials has also made in 2016 environmental management systems filings in respect of the Groups UK facilities were in place at 97 sites worldwide, including under the UK governments Carbon Reduction 46 sites certified to ISO 14001.
Worldwide, Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
104 sites have health and safety management systems in place, with 14 sites certified to or working towards OHSAS 18001.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 43 Environmental performance These programmes helped the Group to 2 1, 5 CO e INTENSITY DUE TO ENERGY USE The Group is committed to environmental reduce its environmental intensity in key areas 2 3 Tonnes CO e m revenue 2 responsibility and works to minimise the over the two years 2014-2016 and to achieve impact of its business on the environment and its target to reduce CO e and energy intensity 2 2016 346 to maximise the positive environmental benefit by 5% and to increase its recycling rate.
However, although total waste was down by 6% and water use was down by 2.4%, 2014 384 The Group monitors the material impacts as a result of the 2.6% decrease in revenue 2013 384 of its operations on the environment as at constant currency compared to 2014, the measured by its Scope 1 CO e and Scope 2 baseline year for the Groups intensity targets, 2 2012 377 CO emissions, energy, waste and water the Groups waste intensity was down less 2 5 1, 2 intensity per million pound of revenue and the than the 5% reduction target and water CO e DUE TO ENERGY USE 2 3 proportion of total waste which is recycled.
intensity was flat over the period.
Tonnes 2016 342,600 Two-year targets are set for the improvement In absolute terms, total CO e emissions due 2 in environmental metrics, and the Groups to energy use in 2016 were 342,600 tonnes, 2015 365,600 2016 performance is reported against the down by 6% from 365,600 tonnes in 2015 2014 389,800 targets for the two-year period 2014-2016. and 12% lower than the 389,800 tonnes 2013 382,200 Each production site also sets specific internal reported for 2014.
Energy use was 1,145 GWh, targets for improvement which are reviewed down by 6% from 1,224 GWh in 2015 and 2012 394,100 as part of the annual budget process to ensure 14% down against the 1,333 GWh reported they are aligned with and contribute to the for 2014.
Further details of the Groups 3 GWh EHS targets and objectives will be included CO e intensity was down by 5% compared 2 2016 1,145 in the Groups 2016 EHS Report which is to 2015 and by 10% compared to 2014.
Thus scheduled for publication on the Group the Group exceeded its target to reduce CO e 2 2015 1,224 website in mid-2017.
emissions intensity due to energy use by 5% 2014 1,333 over the two-year period 2014-2016.
Energy During the year, the Group undertook a series intensity in 2016 was down by 5% compared 2013 1,295 of projects and environmental programmes to 2015 and by 12% compared to 2014.
2012 1,319 focused on the sites identified as having the greatest environmental impact.
These are The five-year performance charts reflect 1, 4 ENERGY INTENSITY subject to regular review and follow-up by reductions in energy and CO e intensity from 2 3 MWh m revenue the Executive Committee to ensure key 2012.
The Group continues to work on a opportunities and risks are addressed.
In number of production improvement projects 2016 1,157 addition, regional programmes covering topics which include energy-efficiency programmes.
1,219 2015 such as energy awareness help to enhance These are aimed at driving continuous business and environmental performance performance improvement in energy and 2014 1,313 and competitiveness.
CO e intensity in 2017 and beyond.
T he 2016 CO2e intensity, energy intensity, water intensity, waste intensity and waste recycling rate information has been subject to assurance by ERM CVS.
For further details of the assurance provided see the Independent Assurance Report on page 47.
Further details of the 2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012 assurance provided by PwC are included in the Independent Assurance Reports on page 32 of the 2015 Annual Report, page 30 of the 2014 Annual Report, page 31 of the 2013 Annual Report and page 25 of the 2012 Annual Report.
S cope 1 CO e emissions from fossil fuel usage and 2 Scope 2 CO using country-specific electricity factors as 2 CO2e factors are not consistently available for electricity use in all countries.
C onstant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
Carbon Dioxide Equivalent the amount of carbon dioxide or the amount of non-CO greenhouse 2 gas with the equivalent global warming potential.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 44 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Total waste reported in 2016 was 46,500 2017 priorities for environmental 1, 3 WASTE tonnes, down by 4% from 48,400 tonnes in performance: 2 Tonnes 2015 and 6% lower than the 49,400 tonnes Focus on specific environmental reported for 2014.
Waste intensity was down 2016 46,500 improvement projects at sites with the by 2% compared to 2015 and down by 3% biggest environmental impact.
Although waste intensity Formalise the improvement project review was reduced, the Group was 2% behind its 2014 49,400 process to include summary reporting to 5% reduction target over the two-year period the Executive Committee.
This was partly due to one-off Benchmark sites with similar production disposals at a number of sites and changes 2012 48,700 technologies to identify best practice and in product mix with increased production of implement improvement plans accordingly.
1, 3 products that have higher waste intensity WASTE INTENSITY Implement energy awareness and 2 Tonnes waste m revenue compared to 2014. resilience programmes, focused on the 2016 47.0 Groups energy-intensive operations.
The proportion of total waste which was 2015 48.2 Focus on robust ownership and delivery recycled was 45% in 2016, an increase of of environmental targets at site, business 2%, from 43% in 2015, and an increase 2014 48.7 and Divisional levels.
This means that 2013 44.8 over the two years 2014-2016 the Group achieved its target to increase the proportion 2012 46.6 of total waste which is recycled.
A significant part of the improvement over the period is 1, 4 WATER USE due to the identification of an opportunity for a 3 2 million m third party to re-use a significant waste stream 2016 2.44 at the Groups site in Augusta, Georgia, USA.
Prior to 2014 the waste was unsegregated and 2015 2.35 was reported as landfill and the 2014 and 2015 2014 2.50 reports have been restated accordingly.
Taking into account 1, 4 WATER INTENSITY the decline in sales at constant currency, 2016 3 2 m m revenue water use intensity was flat compared with 2014 and so the target to reduce water 2016 2,466 intensity by 5% over the two years 2014-2016 2015 2,337 was not achieved.
The increase in water use in 2016 compared to 2015 resulted from 2014 2,463 additional use of water for wash-down and 2013 2,285 clean-up activities as part of the 5S programme and the introduction of a new production line 2012 2,407 at one of the Groups more water-intensive sites in the USA.
Many sites around the world 1.
T he 2016 CO2e intensity, energy intensity, water and particularly in Asia, where water is intensity, waste intensity and waste recycling rate a limited resource, achieved strong information has been subject to assurance by ERM improvements over the period.
Hazardous and non-hazardous waste, including recycled material.
W ater from all sources, including process, irrigation and sanitary use.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 45 MORGAN thinkSAFE OVERVIEW MORGAN thinkSAFE IS A BEHAVIOURAL BASED PROGRAMME.
IT HELPS PROVIDE THE KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS TO ENSURE OPERATIONS ARE CONDUCTED IN A SAFE AND CONTROLLED MANNER.
Morgan thinkSAFE is the Groups global safety Bright, clean and thinkSAFE: Gas safety: performance improvement programme.
This Employee awareness, training and business Awareness and process initiative to address top-down programme was launched in 2015 improvement programme implemented specific gas safety risks and equipment used and is led by the Chief Executive Officer and across all sites worldwide.
It has helped to Objectives: Objectives: drive a dramatic improvement in the health Instilling an unrelenting focus on work Sustain safety focus where flammable and safety performance of the Group since place safety as part of the drive to zero gases are in use.
Reduce risk of catastrophic accidents Implement Take 5 for Safety 5S due to gas safety, focused particularly During 2016 the Group focused on workplace organisation to improve on hydrogen use.
embedding the momentum of thinkSAFE efficiency and productivity.
Step change in awareness, risk reduction with a series of quarterly topics implemented Make Morgan an even better place and action with follow-through across all on a global basis: to work.
Includes: Includes: Global communications programme Carrying out Process Hazard Analysis supported by training and audits across for hydrogen.
Consistent five-stage methodology Best practice and video safety talent adopted for gas machine safety to competitions to engage employees and deliver continuous improvements.
e-learning gas safety development and Safety Week held simultaneously at all training implemented for nominated sites in each region to reinforce the focus staff.
on 5S and safety in an active way.
Involving suppliers and other functions Encouraging safety behaviours at work including maintenance, engineering and and beyond.
Ensuring gas safety systems and controls Take 5 for Safety 5S : are in place, fully functional and tested.
Behavioural change initiative to reduce risk and to leverage lessons from near Slips, trips and falls: miss reporting.
Awareness and prevention of slips, trips Objectives: and falls which account for circa 8% of accidents Group-wide.
Implement a five-step pre-task process to ensure potential hazards are identified Objectives: and controlled before work commences.
Develop full understanding of root Provide a last line of defence before an causes.
Risk reduction and emphasis on Reinforce the messages of zero-harm designing risk out.
and personal responsibility for own Includes: safety and that of colleagues.
Integration with the Take 5 for Safety Includes: quarterly theme.
The five-step pre-task process: 1 Stop, Understanding of unsafe acts leading step back, observe: 2 Think through to near misses and potential accidents.
what you are about to do: 3 Can anything go wrong: 4 What can you do Around the world, the business unit about it: 5 so that you can complete management teams implemented these the activity safely.
themes to promote and reinforce the Use of near misses as free lessons.
Group-wide thinkSAFE programme and to work towards a zero harm work place.
Delivery of the message: Be safe and healthy in all you do: thinkSAFE.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 46 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued 2 LOST TIME ACCIDENT FREQUENCY HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE 1 LTAs 100K hours worked 2016 0.27 With the long-term aim of an injury-free Reported lost time due to accidents and 2015 0.45 workplace, Morgan Advanced Materials plc is work-related illnesses as a percentage of committed to its health and safety core values working time decreased to 0.06% in 2016 2014 0.55 and to conducting all its activities in a manner 2015: 0.08%.
The number of days lost during 2013 0.46 that achieves high standards of health and 2016 was down by 33% 2015: 35% reduction.
safety for all employees and others affected The average number of days lost in 2016 per 2012 0.52 by its operations.
The Groups long-term LTA reported in the year increased by 14% to objective is zero harm and it seeks to achieve 26.8 days 2015: 23.5 days.
Morgan reports 2 LOST TIME ACCIDENTS year-on-year improvements in performance the accidents in the year in which they occur 1 Number of LTAs as it progresses towards this objective.
and the days lost in the year that the time is 2016 53 lost.
The increase in the average days lost per The Groups health and safety Policies are LTA in 2016 was in part due to days lost in 2015 91 clear and communicated throughout the 2016 due to accidents which occurred in the 2014 114 Group.
Health and safety metrics receive prior year.
a high degree of focus at all levels of the 2013 97 business.
The Policy statements are supported The thinkSAFE programme, supported 2012 114 by site-level assessment and monitoring by a focus on leading indicators and on of risks.
underperformance identified, helped to HEALTH AND SAFETY-RELATED LOST TIME deliver this improved performance.
% of total working time In 2016, the Groups accident prevention and training programmes were focused on 2017 priorities for health and safety 2016 0.06 reducing accident numbers and the time lost Sustain the momentum of the Morgan 2015 0.08 per lost time accident.
Focus is increasingly thinkSAFE programme.
placed on leading indicators as well as those 2014 0.13 Monitor visible safety leadership at all levels sites with below-average performance, as of the organisation to help ensure strong, 2013 0.10 measured by their health and safety KPIs personal safety leadership is evident to all.
and through the EHS Compliance Audit 2012 0.12 Continue to implement the new Programme.
Group-wide EHS Framework with focus HEALTH AND SAFETY-RELATED LOST TIME on high-risk health and safety issues.
1 The Groups health and safety KPIs include Days lost due to LTAs Continue the focus on gas safety and accident frequencies, causes and related lost 2016 1,422 ensure actions from the Process Hazard working time.
These are used to monitor the analysis are complete.
2,135 effectiveness of the Groups health and safety 2015 Continue to rollout quarterly themes to policies and related systems on a monthly 2014 3,261 address safety risks and to help improve basis.
The independent external assurance performance.
2013 2,650 performed by ERM CVS covered the Groups Lost Time Accident LTA frequency rate.
Focus on reducing the time lost by each 2012 3,174 lost time accident through appropriate The Groups 2016 health and safety return-to-work initiatives.
1, 2 LOST TIME PER LTA performance improved compared to 2015.
1,3 Carry out a Group-wide EHS personnel Days per LTA Aggregating manufacturing sites and sales competency resource assessment.
2016 26.8 offices, the Group has over 130 locations worldwide and the majority reported no 2015 23.5 LTAs during the year.
This followed a 17% reduction in 2015 from 2014.
The number of LTAs reported was down 42% to 53 2015: 91.
T he 2016 Lost Time Accident Frequency information Many sites had no LTAs and other sites has been subject to assurance by ERM CVS.
For further improved on their accident frequency rates details of the assurance provided see the Independent Assurance Report on page 47.
Further details of the from 2015.
2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012 assurance provided by PwC are included in the Independent Assurance Reports on page 32 of the 2015 Annual Report, page 30 of the 2014 Annual Report, page 31 of the 2013 Annual Report and page 25 of the 2012 Annual Report.
L ost Time Accident LTA : accident or work-related illness which results in one or more days lost time.
Total time lost due to health and safety in the year divided by the number of lost time accidents reported in the year.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 47 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS PLC ERM Certification and Verification Services ERM CVS was engaged by Morgan Advanced Materials plc Morgan to provide limited assurance in relation to specified 2016 EHS performance data in Morgans Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 the Report as set out below.
ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY Whether the following EHS performance data for year ended 31 December 2016 are fairly presented, Scope of our in all material respects, with the reporting criteria: assurance GHG: Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions due to energy use in tonnes CO e: CO e intensity engagement 2 2 tonnes CO e m revenue.
2 Total Energy use GWh and Energy intensity MWh m revenue.
3 3 Water use million m and Water intensity million m m revenue.
Waste tonnes and waste intensity tonnes m revenue.
Safety: Number of lost time accidents LTAs and Lost Time Accident Frequency LTAs 100,000 hours worked.
Morgans own internal reporting criteria and definitions set out at www.
Assurance standard ERM CVS assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 Revised.
Assurance level Morgan is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in reporting to third parties, Respective including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary.
responsibilities ERM CVSs responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgment.
A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and assurance Year-end assurance activities at corporate Our conclusions specialists performed the following activities: level including the results of internal review Based on our activities, nothing has procedures and the accuracy of the come to our attention to indicate that Interviews with relevant staff to understand consolidation of the data for the selected the EHS performance data for year ended and evaluate the data management indicators from the site data.
31 December 2016, as listed above, are not systems and processes including IT fairly presented, in all material respects, with systems and internal review processes the reporting criteria.
The limitations of our engagement used for collecting and reporting the The reliability of the assured data is subject to selected data: inherent uncertainties, given the available Our assurance activities A review of the internal indicator definitions methods for determining, calculating or Our objective was to assess whether the and conversion factors: estimating the underlying information.
It is selected data are reported in accordance with Visits to five sites two in USA, one each in important to understand our assurance the principles of completeness, comparability Mexico, France and India to review local conclusions in this context.
across the organisation and accuracy reporting processes and consistency of including calculations, use of appropriate reported annual data with selected conversion factors and consolidation.
We underlying source data for each indicator.
planned and performed our work to obtain We interviewed relevant staff, reviewed all the information and explanations that we site data capture and reporting methods, believe were necessary to provide a basis JENNIFER LANSEN-ROGERS checked calculations and assessed the local for our assurance conclusions.
HEAD OF CORPORATE ASSURANCE SERVICES internal quality and assurance processes.
23 February 2017 An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and ERM Certification and Verification Services, London accuracy of the corporate data www.
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group.
The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training.
Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest.
ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken this engagement work have provided no consultancy-related services to Morgan Advanced Materials plc in any respect.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 48 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic emissions which are in addition to the Report and Directors Report Regulations emissions due to energy use reported on page 2013 the Regulations the Group is required 43 of this Annual Report.
In the table below to report its annual greenhouse gas emissions CO e is the amount of CO and the amount 2 2 in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e of non-CO greenhouse gas with the 2 2 in its Directors Report.
Data is rounded to the nearest 100 tonnes of CO e. 2 Morgan has published information on its emissions due to the combustion of fossil fuels As required under the Regulations, the above and the electricity purchased by the Company report includes the material emission sources for its own use in its annual EHS Report since from the operations and activities covered by 2004 and in its Annual Report since 2005. the Groups financial statements.
As noted, the Since 2011 the Groups CO e emissions due reports exclude emissions from Company- 2 to energy consumption have been externally owned and leased vehicles and emissions assured see 2016 Assurance Report from relating to steam supplied by third parties to ERM CVS on page 47.
The Group has two sites in China and one in Europe, which participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project are in total estimated to account for less than CDP since 2006 and in 2016 achieved a 1% of total emissions.
The Directors consider score of A-, reflecting the Groups strong that these sources of emissions are not performance and the depth and quality of material to the total of the emissions.
climate change data Morgan has disclosed to investors and the global marketplace through The Groups reporting methodology is based the CDP.
on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol with emission factors for standard grid electricity by The Regulations require the Group to disclose country and year from the International Energy its emissions due to the combustion of Agency together with other factors published biomass and due to process and fugitive by the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs used to calculate the CO e emissions included in this Report.
2 2016 2015 Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 Emissions from combustion of fuels and operation 1 of facilities 2 Combustion of fossil fuels 126,400 133,200 3 Operation of facilities, including process emissions 29,100 29,500 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased 4 for own consumption 2,3 Purchased electricity 216,200 232,400 5 Intensity measurement Tonnes CO e due to fossil fuels and purchased electricity 2 2 per m revenue 346 364 Tonnes GHGs per m revenue 376 393 1.
E xcludes emissions from Company-owned and leased vehicles estimated at circa 2,100 tonnes CO2e in 2016 2015: 2,200 tonnes CO2e.
T he 2016 information regarding CO2e due to energy use has been subject to assurance by ERM CVS.
See the Independent Assurance Report on page 47 of this Annual Report.
See page 32 of the 2015 Annual Report for further details of the assurance of the 2015 information regarding CO2e by PwC.
E lectricity from renewable sources at zero tonnes CO2 per kWh.
Emissions increase by 2,600 tonnes at grid-average rates 2015: 4,400 tonnes.
E xcludes steam supplied by third parties to two sites in China and one in Europe.
C onstant currency basis and restated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 49 TOTAL LOST TIME PEOPLE % of working time 2016 3.0 Morgan Advanced Materials employees Following the announcement of the Groups 2015 2.7 are critical to its success and the workforce intention to move to a global structure and comprises people with highly unique skills and in order to support the execution of that 2014 2.4 abilities.
Set out below are the Groups People reorganisation targeted talent reviews were 2013 3.1 Policies, how they have been implemented, completed, resulting in internal promotions, with a review of their effectiveness.
development opportunities and recruitment 2012 2.7 during 2016.
Due to the reorganisation in the early part of 2016 the normal talent review People Policies and their EMPLOYEE TURNOVER process was deferred until 2017 to allow the implementation % per year new organisation to embed.
In 2017 the talent The Group supports the Universal Declaration 2016 11.7 review process will itself be reviewed to of Human Rights, and the Groups Human ensure the Group is fully able to meet its 2015 13.6 Rights Policy commits the Group to protect stated objective of driving business the rights of everyone who works for it and all 2014 13.8 performance through highly effective business those who have dealings with it.
The principles development, sales, technology innovation, 2013 13.8 of the Policy cover child labour, forced labour, and commercial leadership.
The Group health and safety, freedom of association, 2012 13.4 continued to prioritise the global graduate discrimination, discipline, working hours and development programme in 2016. compensation and the Policy is published on TRAINING the Groups website.
Morgan Advanced Hours per employee A key area of focus is the improvement of sales Materials plc does not unfairly discriminate and 2016 13.1 effectiveness through identifying the specific respects human rights.
Our employee policies behaviours that contribute to a salespersons are set locally to comply with local law within 2015 17.8 successful performance in Morgan.
Through the overall Group framework.
The Morgan 2014 13.9 identifying these behaviours or competencies, ethics hotline enables employees who we will be able to build personal learning and are aware of or suspect issues under the 2013 15.1 development plans that will enable our sales Groups Human Rights Policy to report these 2012 13.3 teams to focus on the areas that matter most confidentially.
During 2016 an assessment of the current sales organisation has been Talent conducted, including a survey of people One of the Groups key execution priorities for involved in the sales process to better the next 18 months is to increase investment understand their job roles and skills.
in people management, key functional and technical skills and the development of future The Group continues to strengthen existing leaders.
The Group is planning to strengthen relationships with leading universities working leadership capability and deepen functional in materials science, providing opportunities capabilities across the business, including in for employees as well as undergraduate materials science and within the sales function.
This includes the Senior leaders will be benchmarked externally, establishment of the Carbon Science Centre new talent will be introduced and future of Excellence at Pennsylvania State University, leadership candidates will be identified from USA, and the Centre of Excellence for Metals within the business.
The Group will invest and Joining in Hayward, California, which will more in training and create clear career paths serve as a focal point for academic collaboration for technologists and engineers.
The annual on joining technologies with key university intake of graduate trainees will be increased faculties worldwide.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 50 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Recruitment Training and development Division-based development programmes are During 2016, the Group continued to develop Overall training hours per employee have provided where appropriate to supplement its recruitment channels and processes.
These reduced by 26% to 13.1 hours per person.
For example, in the include its online presence and assessment This was expected as training hours Thermal Products Division, the Ascend and processes, and formal assessments at senior normalised following the large investment in Velocity leadership development programmes, levels to help inform recruitment decisiontraining during 2015 with the launch of which were developed in Asia, are being making.
Whether recruiting internally or thinkSAFE, Morgans behavioural safety updated to be rolled out globally.
externally, selection is based on many factors programme.
Morgan provides Group-wide including relevant education, work experience, and Division-based training where appropriate.
Reward, recognition and awards competencies, potential, and performance The Group recognises the accomplishments of record.
The Group does not unfairly In 2016 the Group launched two new its people individually and as teams, and makes discriminate and it respects human rights.
Company-wide training programmes, awards to acknowledge achievement, loyalty, thinkSAFE and the Environment, and innovation.
In 2016, recognition awards The Group has operated its global graduate Health and Safety e-learning.
continued to be made across local businesses programme for a fifth successive year.
as well as to senior management, with awards Graduates initially join our businesses in Asia, A train-the-trainer programme, thinkSAFE linked to business performance.
Europe and North America and take part in a is aimed at enhancing leaders and managers common development programme that builds coaching and mentoring skills to engage The principle of pay for performance is applied current and future capability, and gives access employees in striving for a zero harm culture.
to the Groups compensation approach and to international assignments and opportunities.
Over 200 leaders, managers and supervisors the Company sets compensation levels using The Chief Executive Officer and other attended the programme in 2016.
The EHS external benchmarking and relevant members of the Executive Committee e-learning training is focused on gas safety, commercial considerations that are both attend the development programmes.
one of the Groups high-risk priority areas, competitive in the countries in which they and is available in 17 languages.
Morgan offers The Group continues to create market leading programmes are covered in further detail short-term performance incentives globally undergraduate development opportunities, in the Environment, health and safety section to managers and technical and functional nurturing the pipeline for its global graduate on pages 41 to 48. experts.
The Executive Committee and senior programme.
For the year 2016 17 Morgan management also have long-term incentives Advanced Materials has been acknowledged Also at Group level, the global Advanced tied to personal and commercial performance.
by the Groups undergraduates and the Leadership Programme is in its second year.
At plant level, most sites offer incentives to market, via the undergraduate employer Designed for high-potential and high-performing their workforce that result in payments based review site Rate My Placement, as a top managers it is focused on building leadership on meeting locally-set performance targets.
capability and connecting future leaders deeply This is the first time Morgan has been to Morgans strategy and its execution.
The Morgan regularly reviews bonus arrangements recognised and demonstrates the excellent Graduate Leadership Programme, which is a and benefits to ensure they encourage and development opportunities the Group pipeline for future leaders within the business, reward commercial and personal performance.
was redesigned based on business needs and two additional modules were added to the programme for 2016.
The Responsible Business Programme RBP is the Group-wide ethics and compliance programme, launched in 2010, with the core elements of policies, training, risk assessments, monitoring and assurance.
The training content covers human rights, anti-bribery and ethics, anti-trust and contract risk management and is refreshed on an annual basis.
This programme is covered in further detail on pages 38 to 40.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 51 Communication The Groups geographical employee spread The Strategic Report, as set out on pages The Group recognises the continued is as follows: 10 to 51, has been approved by the Board.
importance of prioritising and improving employee communication across the Group.
On behalf of the Board GEOGRAPHICAL SPREAD For example, in 2016 the Thermal Products 2016 2015 Division increased the number of employee PAUL BOULTON briefings and forums covering business results, USA 30% 30% COMPANY SECRETARY & GENERAL COUNSEL business strategy, business improvement and UK 13% 14% safety.
Videos, poster campaigns and China 15% 15% 23 February 2017 newsletters have also continued to be a strong Other Europe 20% 18% feature of communication activity.
Other North America 7% 7% Morgan continues to have formal and informal South America 4% 4% consultative arrangements globally, according Rest of World 11% 12% to local requirements and regulations.
The 20th annual European Employee Forum was Breakdown of employees by gender held in May 2016, and was attended by site at 31 December 2016 was as follows: employee representatives from France, Germany, Hungary, Italy and the UK.
TOTAL WORKFORCE 8,900 People Policy effectiveness Male 6,297 At the end of the year, Morgan employed 71% 8,900 people.
The Group additionally Female 2,603 contracted with 800 people on short-term arrangements to provide the flexibility for the 29% Groups businesses to react quickly to changes Senior managers 14 in market conditions.
The Groups employee Male 12 turnover was 11.7% in 2016, excluding 86% disposals 2015: 13.6%, 1.0% of the Female 2 workforce was made redundant during the year 2015: 1.4%.
14% Directors 7 Male 5 71% Female 2 29% ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 52 G GO OV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E GOVERNANCE CONTENTS 53 Chairmans letter to shareholders 54 Board of Directors 62 Report of the Audit Committee 67 Report of the Nomination Committee 70 Remuneration report 92 Other disclosures 96 In dependent auditors report to the members of Morgan Advanced Materials plc M MO OR RG GAN AN AD ADV VAN ANC CE ED D MA MAT TE ERI RIA AL LS S A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 16 6
