Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Safety & Environment Committee Report Dear Shareholder Chris Muntwyler We were deeply saddened by the Chattanooga accident in Safety & Environment theNorth American School Bus business, the details of which Committee Chair have been covered earlier in this Annual Report.
The Safety & Environment Committee the Committee was reassured by theGroup ChiefExecutives prompt and engaged action taken tolead theCompanys review into the causes of, and the complexity ofissues arising from, this tragic accident.
The Committee is encouraged by the steps being taken and fully support Dean Finch and his management team in this matter.
How the Safety & Environment Committee National Express will, of course, continue to assist in any spent its time in 2016 reviews into the incident and is determined to learn any necessary lessons from this tragic accident.
External audit of corporate 9% governance of safety Safety continues to be our highest priority across the Group Driving out Harm annual review 9% with overall responsibility lying with the Group Chief Executive Safety performance review 18% and our Divisional Managing Directors, who set out annual plans Environment review 16% and priorities for improved performance.
The management Review of safety-related technology 17% ofthe Groups environmental impact on the communities it Review of Chattanooga incident 28% serves forms a key component of our Community Value.
The Health and wellbeing 2% Committee, comprised solely ofNon-Executive Directors, plays Committee governance 1% a fundamental role in the oversight of safety and environmental issues and initiatives by reviewing and challenging the structure, content and operation of the safety management arrangements which have been putinplace by the executive management andmonitoring environmental performance and targets.
The Committee was pleased to see the extent to which management has leveraged technology during the year in support of our World Class Driver training initiative, which forms part of our strategy.
All new vehicles joining the National Express network of coaches are now fitted with Lytx DriveCam, an incident alert system provided by an on-board camera.
Over the next year, a programme will be rolled out to fit around half ofour UK buses with this new technology, with plans in place tobring allschool buses into the programme overthe next three years.
Under this system, incidents are triggered bydifferent events, such as harsh braking, swerving or collisions.
Footage is then sent directly to the operator for review immediately after an event has happened, allowing the operator to coach the driver onthe relevant behaviours displayed, using the footage to talk through the event.
The Committee recognises the value added by managements investment in these new systems which will help us continue to improve driving standards and manage our safety programme more proactively.
The Committee continues to be supported in its safety oversight role by independent safety consultant Arthur D Little which, on an annual basis, undertakes an audit of corporate governance in line with our Global Standard: Safety Audit and Management Check.
Their audit examines the role and effectiveness of the Committee, the Group-level monitoring of safety performance, the effectiveness of the safety management review and the safety management arrangements in place across all Group companies.
As Committee Chairman, I am pleased to report that the 82 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 conclusion Arthur D Little reached in respect of the year under The Committees terms of reference are reviewed review was that the Board and the Committee continued to annually and are available on the Companys website, provide effective safety governance: the Committee has respect www.
for, and continuing confidence in, the strong leadership shown bythe Group Chief Executive, who is supported by a highly Role and responsibilities regarded Group Safety Director.
The Committees key responsibilities are summarised below: The Committee was also pleased to learn of several safety Responsibility for reviewing and challenging constructively awards received by the Group during 2016.
All three UK the structure, content and operation of the safety businesses, Coach, Bus and c2c, received the British Safety management arrangements put in place by members of Council Sword of Honour, which recognises commitments theexecutive management toexcellent health and safety management standards.
Our Reporting to the Board on its observations on the safety achievements through our Driving Out Harm programme have management arrangements inplace, and reviewing and also been recognised by the Prince Michael International Road making recommendations to theBoard on any specific Safety Awards, which reward outstanding achievements safety management issues relatingto the Company or andinnovation that improve road safety.
Singled out for anysubsidiary company notablemention relating to this award was our ALSA business Reviewing and monitoring the Companys environmental inMorocco where incidents have fallen by 85% in the five years performance and targets since these standards were introduced.
It is heartening to know that our safety measures and arrangements are externally Committee activity recognised and validated.
The key areas of Committee activity during the year, and through to the date of this report, included the following: With respect to the management of the Companys environmental responsibilities, I am pleased to report that, Adopted a new benchmarking approach to focus on risk for2016, the Group continued to have zero prosecutions, management at Group and divisional level enforcement notices or violations and is fully compliant with all Approved updated KPIs to provide greater analytical insight new environmental legislation introduced in 2015.
As part of the over the next five years Groups climate change strategy, we are committed toworking Reviewed the focus on water consumption and treatment in partnership with our stakeholders to mitigate the impacts asthe business continues to expand into new territories ofclimate change.
The Committee has been pleased tosee Oversaw the introduction of a more tailored cost benefit managements approach to constantly striving to reduce analysis carried out on environmental initiatives and actions ouremissions through the use of innovative fuel efficiency being delivered across the Group technologies, carbon reduction programmes linked to energy Reviewed the impact of the continued investment in vehicle and water use in buildings and the broader supply chain to safety systems and on-board supporting technology to address our static emissions.
Investment has continued during reduce the risk of accidents the year in carbon efficient fleet and energy saving initiatives Reviewed the safety-related benefits arising from the across the Group with enhanced employee engagement on implementation of the World Class Driver programme environmental actions plans.
Reviewed the health and wellbeing activities being implemented across the Group Membership The membership of the Committee during the year ended The Companys detailed mandatory report on greenhouse gas 31December 2016 is set out below.
All members are emissions in all of its businesses during 2016 can be found on Non-Executive Directors.
Three meetings were held during pages 28 to 31. theyear with attendance by members shown on page 62.
Committee Effectiveness Chris Muntwyler Chairman Feedback from the annual performance evaluation of the Board Jorge Cosmen and its Committees, which was conducted internally this year as Joaqun Ayuso described earlier in this report, confirmed that the Committee Matthew Crummack continued to be effective in fulfilling its duties with no particular Dr Ashley Steel areas of concern identified for development.
Sir John Armitt CBE Lee Sander Conclusion Jane Kingston The safety of our employees and customers is of critical Mike McKeon importance to the Board, as is the responsible management of our environmental obligations.
I would like to thank Dean Finch The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and his team for the leadership they show in these areas and, and attends all meetings.
In addition, the Group Chief Executive, inparticular, their personal engagement with safety matters Group Finance Director, Group Safety Director, Group Property across the Group over the course of the past 12 months.
& Environment Director and representatives from our external safety adviser, Arthur D Little, attend by invitation.
Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the matters consideredand decisions taken by the Committee.
Chris Muntwyler Safety & Environment Committee Chair 23 February 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 83
