FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy continued The Board insists on strict observance with these same standards by its service providers in their activities for the Company and continues to refine its process in this regard.
Employees and Socially Responsible Investment The Company has a management contract with the Investment Manager.
It has no employees and all of its Directors are nonexecutive, with day-to-day activities being carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Companys main activities are carried out by Neuberger Berman, which is a signatory of the Principles of Responsible Investment and has an ongoing commitment to strengthening and refining its environmental, social and governance approach.
An overview of Neuberger Bermans Principals for Responsible Investment is detailed on its website at www.
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company has no significant greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations for the year to 31 December 2016 2015 none, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources.
Gender Metrics The Board consists of three men and one woman.
More information on the Boards consideration of diversity is given in the Corporate Governance Report on page 28.
The Modern Slavery Act 2015 MSA The MSA requires companies to prepare a slavery and human trafficking statement for each financial year of the organisation.
As the Company has no employees and does not supply goods or services, the MSA does not directly apply to it.
The MSA requirements more appropriately relate to the Investment Manager which is a signatory of the Principles of Responsible Investment please see Employees and Socially Responsible Investment above which include social factors such as working conditions, including slavery and child labour.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving this report are listed on page 18.
Each of those Directors confirms that: to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the auditor is unaware: and he or she has taken all steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
For and on behalf of the Board William Frewen Chairman 5 April 2017 24 NEUBERGER BERMAN
