AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Composition Meeting Frequency The Audit Committees Objectives and Responsibilities and Attendance The Audit Committee is chaired by Thomas The purpose of the Committee is to assist the to develop and implement policy on the Chambers, a Chartered Accountant, who has Board in the discharge of its responsibilities for engagement of the external auditors to supply The Committee is required by its Terms of previously worked as the CFO of two financial reporting and corporate control, including non-audit services and to approve any fees Reference to meet at least three times per year.
telecommunications companies and held roles with risk and to provide a forum for reporting by the for non-audit work paid to the auditors in During this financial year the Committee met four Kleinwort Benson and Price Waterhouse.
The Committees Terms of excess of 10,000 ten thousand pounds times.
As well as the members of the Committee, therefore considered by the Board to have the Reference can be found in the Groups Investors in any 12 month period: the meetings are usually attended by the Chairman, recent and relevant experience required by the UK section of the Companys website www.
Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The external Corporate Governance Code 2014. trust uk about-us investorrelations.
to monitor the Companys whistle-blowing auditors also attend each meeting.
During the year procedures: the Committee also meets with the external The other members of the Committee are the The Terms of Reference are reviewed annually and auditors without the executives present.
senior independent NonExecutive Director, have been updated to reflect the changes to the to review the Companys procedures for Debbie Hewitt, who has a wide range of relevant UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, requiring a detecting fraud and the systems of control for The attendance of individual Committee members business experience and Chris Batterham, a determination of whether the Annual Report and the prevention and detection of bribery: at Audit Committee meetings is shown in the table Chartered Accountant who has previously worked Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair balanced and below: as a Finance Director.
to review regularly the need for an internal audit comprised of three independent Non-Executive function: Meetings Directors.
The Committees main responsibilities can be attended summarised as follows: to review the audit findings with the external Thomas Chambers 4 4 Summary biographies of each member of the auditor including discussing any major issues Committee are included on pages 42 to 43. to monitor the integrity of the financial statements which arise during an audit, the accounting Debbie Hewitt 4 4 Each Committee member has significant and any formal announcements relating to the and audit judgments made, the level of errors Chris Batterham 3 4 experience of financial matters through their Groups financial performance, reviewing the identified during the audit and the effectiveness past and present business activities.
material information and significant financial of the audit: and reporting judgements contained in them: to give due consideration to laws and regulations, to review the Groups internal financial control the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance system and risk management systems: Code and the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure to review the nature and extent of significant and Transparency Rules and any other applicable financial and business risks to NCC Group and rules as appropriate.
the mitigation of these risks: to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: to oversee the relationship with the external auditors including, but not limited to, independence, objectivity and effectiveness: 62 63 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Significant issues Software and Accounting for Business Revenue Recognition considered during the development costs Combinations year in relation to the Revenue recognition, which was identified by the Financial Statements auditors as a significant risk last year, is now no The Group is undertaking a number of development The Group completed the acquisition of Fox-IT in longer deemed a significant risk by the auditors.
projects aimed at producing new products and November 2015.
Management completed the services while there is also the on-going investment exercise to determine the fair value of intangible During the year, the Committee reviewed and in the Groups finance systems.
As a result, total assets and other net assets acquired in considered the following areas in respect of costs of 6.0m excluding domain services have accordance with IFRS3.
Internal Audit financial reporting and the preparation of the been capitalised in the year.
interim and annual financial statements: The Committee has reviewed a summary of Given the significant value of the assets, there is an the key assumptions adopted, compared these The Group again formally considered the need the appropriateness of the accounting element of judgment in respect of the recoverability assumptions to other recent company acquisitions for its own Internal Audit function and while it policies used: of the asset values and also in the classification of and discussed with our external auditors, was satisfied it was not necessary, the Group the expenditure as to whether it is capital rather KPMG, the accounting for acquisitions and contracted an independent third party firm of the significant areas of judgment in the than on going operational in nature.
the completeness of related disclosures to Chartered Accountants to complete a full Internal financial statements: ensure that they are complete, accurate, Audit of the North American finance function and A key part of this investment has been the understandable and compliant with IFRS3.
It is planned that going compliance with external and internal continued development of the Fox-IT and NCC forward an Internal Audit programme will be financial reporting standards and policies: Group technologies to create the High Assurance developed and delivered by a third party products and to operate the threat intelligence and Goodwill and independent qualified auditor.
disclosures and presentations: managed services platforms.
intangible assets The CFO in the US, who had held a senior position the requirement for a formal internal Until this year the continued development of the in finance in the UK has reported to the Board on audit function: and products and tools to administer and manage both his observations on the internal controls in the US branded and.
trust domains had been capitalised The Group has and will continue to develop both and regular visits are made to the US offices by whether the Annual Report and Accounts however following a strategic review, 6.9m of costs the Esrow and Assurance divisions organically and members of the senior management team including taken as a whole are fair balanced and that had been treated as capitalised development by the acquisition of complementary businesses.
understandable and provide the information spend in accordance with IAS38 have now been As a result of this the Group has Goodwill of necessary to assess the Companys position written off.
The total value of assets that were 224m and carrying value of acquired intangible Additional comfort is drawn from the internal and performance, business model and strategy.
created and are to be reused and remain capitalised assets of 51.1m.
controls and the Quality and Security procedures as at 31 May 2016 is 4.2m of which 2.3m relates that are in place to support the regular internal and In carrying out this review the Committee directly to the ownership the TLD.
In accordance with IAS36, management have external audits that are conducted under the considered the advice of the Groups finance team determined appropriate cash generating units Groups ISO 9001 accredited quality assurance and the external auditors reports setting out their The Committee has addressed this issue through on which to base the annual impairment review process.
Further as the Group has expanded views on the accounting treatments and judgments examining the reports received from management for goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets through organic growth and acquisitions, the included in the financial statements.
outlining the future plans for the business and its by comparing the recoverable amount to the external auditors KPMG, have extended their audit approach to classifying costs as capital in nature.
scope to ensure consistent audit coverage.
All The significant accounting areas and judgments acquisitions are independently audited before their considered by the Committee were: The Committee receives regular updates from The Committee have reviewed the rationale used to acquisition and undergo a comprehensive due the Board regarding project progress and costs determine the cash generating units and assumptions diligence process.
The Committee gains additional comfort used in future cash flows which underpin the that the business plans have received Board valuation of goodwill other intangible assets.
These current arrangements are deemed sufficient approval.
given the structure of the Groups accounting The conclusion of this years review was to impair function and the size of the Group, but it will This is an area of significant risk for the external the goodwill of Open Registry by 11.9m.
continue to be reviewed each year.
auditors who have also obtained and challenged the latest business plans and the treatment of a sample of costs to ensure that only development costs have been capitalised.
64 65 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Internal controls and Risk Management Review of effectiveness The Board is responsible for establishing, clearly defined management structure and The external auditors provide independent advice The Board, with advice of the Audit Committee has maintaining and monitoring the Groups system delegation of authority to Committees of the on those areas of internal control which they reviewed and considered the effectiveness of the of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
Board, subsidiary boards and associated assess during the course of their work for the risk management and system of internal controls in Internal control systems are designed to meet business units: Group and whose findings are regularly reported to place and is satisfied that the Group has in place the particular needs of the Group and the risks the Board and the Audit Committee.
effective risk management and control systems.
By their nature however, clearly documented internal procedures set out internal control systems are designed to manage in the Groups ISO 9001:2008 accredited The Board through the Audit Committee monitors rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve quality manual: the on-going process by which critical risks to the business objectives and can provide only business are identified, evaluated and managed.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against The Company maintains a risk register, which: high recruitment standards and formal career material misstatement or loss.
Key elements of the development and training to ensure the integrity internal control system are described below.
These and competence of staff: sets out the Groups risk appetite: have all been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report and are reviewed regularly regular anti-bribery, security and compliance identifies the key risks faced by the Group and by the Board: training: assesses their likelihood and impact: and regular and comprehensive information provided identifies the processes and controls in place to management, covering financial performance to mitigate these risks.
and key performance indicators, including non-financial measures: Regular reporting of risk management ensures that each risk is evaluated on a timely basis to ensure a detailed budgeting process where business that all relevant risks are identified and managed units prepare plans for the coming year: appropriately and that the Board is focused on principal risks.
procedures for the approval of capital expenditure and investments and acquisitions: From 1 June 2016 the Group formed a Cyber Security Committee that will evaluate the risk environment that the Group operates in and report monthly operational reviews to monitor and to the main Board accordingly.
re-forecast results against the annual operating plan, with major variances followed up and management action taken where appropriate: The current principal risks and uncertainties to the Group are set out on page 28 to 31. regular internal audits of key processes and procedures under the Groups ISO 9001 and The Groups non cyber security risks are monitored ISO 27001 accredited quality assurance by the Committee and then assessed by the Board process: which sets aside time for in depth discussion of notable risks to the business.
on-going procedures to identify, evaluate and manage principal risks faced by the business and procedures to monitor the control systems in place to reduce these risks to an acceptable level: a bi-annual detailed Group wide risk review supplemented by formal consideration of progress made against significant business risks at monthly operational board meetings: and monitoring of any whistle blowing or fraud reports.
66 67 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT External Auditor Appointment Auditors Independence Related Party Transactions and other fees approved by the The Committee reviews and makes The Groups current auditors, KPMG LLP, have The Committee received a formal statement of recommendations with regard to the been in place since 1 November 2013 with a Committee independence from the external auditors.
re-appointment of external auditors following competitive audit tender process having last been a formal review of the auditors performance undertaken in November 2011.
The Committee The Company also operates a rigorous policy following the June Audit Committee meeting.
have considered the performance of the external designed to ensure that the auditors independence During the year the Audit Committee approved In making these recommendations the auditors and the reports they have produced and is not compromised by their undertaking corporate finance fees payable to Rickitt Mitchell & inappropriate non-audit work.
The Audit Committee considers: have concluded it is appropriate to recommend to Partners Ltd of 750,000 2015: 748,500 in Committees approval is therefore required for any the Board the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as the relation to the fund raise and the successful fees for non-audit work paid to the auditors in the experience, industry knowledge and Groups external auditor for the next financial year.
acquisition of Fox-IT in November 2015. excess of 10,000 ten thousand pounds in any expertise of the auditors: financial year.
However, the Company recognises The UK Competition and Markets Authoritys All of the fees are related directly to the execution that it can receive particular benefit from certain and project management of the fund raising CMA Statutory Audit Services Order Order the scope and planning of the audit and any non-audit services provided by the external auditors processes and the acquisition.
Rickitt Mitchell & states, amongst other matters, that FTSE 350 variations from plan: due to their technical skills and detailed Partners Ltd neither seeks nor recommends listed companies should put their external audit understanding of the Companys business.
potential acquisition targets to the Group and the contract out to public tender at least every the quality of the processes adopted: Non-Executive Chairman, who is the Non-Executive 10 years.
The Companys audit contract will During this financial year 10,000 2015: 28,750 Chairman of Rickitt Mitchell, is excluded from all be put to competitive tender during 2018, non-audit fees were paid to the external auditor for the fees charged: discussions on fees.
with a view to appointing an external auditor for the financial year commencing 1 June 2018. their attitude to and handling of key audit All significant pieces of non-audit work are put to judgments: Fair, balanced and informal tender to suitable parties, this includes if The Committee believes that such a competitive appropriate the auditors.
Upon review as to understandable tender exercise will be in the best interest of the their ability to challenge and communicate suitability and price the work will then be placed to shareholders as it will ensure continuing scrutiny effectively with management: and the provider recommended after approval by the and objectivity of the audit.
The choice of external Audit Committee, if such approval is necessary, in auditor may be reviewed earlier if the Committee the quality of the final report.
accordance with the rules set out above.
At the request of the Board, the Committee considers it appropriate.
considered whether the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts was fair balanced and understandable During the financial year, the Committee Chair The Committee confirms the Company is in and whether it provided the necessary information attended regular meetings with KPMGs for shareholders to assess NCC Groups position compliance with the provision of the CMA Order.
engagement partner without management being and performance, business model and strategy.
This provided the Committee Chair with The Committee was satisfied that taken as a whole an opportunity for open dialogue.
The engagement the Report and Accounts are fair balanced and partner demonstrated their understanding of the understandable.
Groups business risks and the consequential impact on the financial statement risks.
The Committee Chair was also able to obtain feedback on the conduct of the audit firm from the engagement partners perspective to determine if any challenges in the prior year audit would be sufficiently addressed in the next audit cycle.
Thomas Chambers Chairman, Audit Committee 6 July 2016 68 69 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Paul Mitchell, Chairman of the Board, is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Other members of the Committee are the three independent Non-Executive directors, Debbie Hewitt, Thomas Chambers and Chris Batterham and the Chief Executive, Rob Cotton.
The Nomination Committees objectives Committee Meetings and responsibilities.
The Committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference to meet at least twice per The Committee is responsible for reviewing the size, All appointments are made on merit and against year.
During this financial year the Committee met structure, balance, composition and progressive objective criteria with due regard for the benefits two times.
refreshing of the Board and as such its duties include: of diversity on the Board, including gender.
reviewing the structure of the Board: It is intended during the new financial year that the Meetings attended Board will be strengthened by the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director.
evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, Paul Mitchell 2 2 experience and diversity on the Board: Rob Cotton 2 2 The Company and the Committee value the aims Debbie Hewitt 2 2 and objectives of the Davies report on women on making recommendations for further recruitment boards and support and apply the Groups diversity to the Board or proposing changes to the Thomas Chambers 2 2 policy set out on page 35. existing Board: Chris Batterham 2 2 No formal measurable objectives for female reviewing the leadership needs of the Company, representation at board level have currently been set both executive and non-executive: as the Committee is committed, while having regard to the diversity policy, to recommend only the most succession planning for directors and other appropriate candidates for appointment to the senior executives within the business: and Board.
Currently 17% of the directors and officers on the Board are women.
reviewing annually the time required from the non-executive directors.
When a new director is appointed they receive a full, formal and tailored induction into the Company and The Non-Executive Chairman leads the process for discuss with the Chairman any immediate training the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors to requirements.
For Executive Director positions, the Chief Executive leads the process.
The Committees terms of reference can be found in the Groups Investors section of the Companys In relation to an appointment, the Committee draws website, www.
trust uk about-us up a specification and assesses the capabilities investorrelations.
The terms of reference are required for such a role, including an assessment of reviewed annually and updated when necessary.
Candidates are sought by third party advisors, internal recruitment Paul Mitchell processes and where appropriate through Chairman, assessment of internal candidates and are then Nomination Committee formally considered by the Nomination Committee.
6 July 2016 70 71 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the Directors It has been another strong year for the Group, with The salary reviews of our two key Executives are Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 May good organic growth across many areas of the compliant with our Remuneration Policy and will be 2016.
The Report is split into three sections, business and two successful acquisitions adding to effective from 1 June 2016. namely, this Annual Statement, the Directors the product and geographical portfolio of the Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Group.
Adjusted operating profits have grown by Our Executive shareholding guideline is 100% of Remuneration.
45% to 37.0m before the operational expenditure base salary within five years from the later of i the for Domain Services.
This is slightly ahead of date of their respective appointment: and ii 25 The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved market consensus.
This level of performance has June 2015 being the date the guidelines were at the 2014 Annual General Meeting held on 16 been reflected in the performance-related elements initially adopted to attain their minimum September 2014.
The Remuneration Committee is of Executive remuneration.
The Chief Executive and Finance not permitted to deviate from the approved policy Director meet this criterion.
for three years, unless it gains shareholder The annual bonus for the year ended 31 May 2016 approval for an amended policy.
was based on the satisfaction of stretching pre-tax At the Annual General Meeting in September 2015, profit targets and performance over the year 96.41% of shareholders voted in favour of the This approved policy reflects our overall philosophy resulted in a payment of 70% of basic salary for adoption of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
of adopting clear, simple and market competitive both of the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The Remuneration Committee appreciated the remuneration schemes.
The alignment of Executive 35% of this bonus will be deferred in shares and support for our approach.
The 2016 Annual remuneration with the objectives of the held for two years.
Statement and Annual Report on Remuneration will shareholders has been the principal focus, be put to an advisory vote at the Annual General ensuring remuneration structures are fully attuned In addition, the growth in adjusted EPS over the Meeting in September 2016, providing to the business strategy.
We aim to balance the last three years has resulted in the vesting of shareholders with the opportunity to voice their short, medium and long term components of our 19.6% of the LTIP awarded in the year ended 31 opinions on how the Committee has implemented remuneration, to ensure that we motivate and retain May 2013, for both of the Chief Executive and the Remuneration Policy this year.
The year ended our Executives and keep them focused on Finance Director.
This reflects the very stretching 31 May 2016 was another good year of progress delivering long term, sustainable growth.
targets that the Committee set for this period of for NCC Group and in this context, we look growth.
The target range for future LTIPs is set out forward to receiving your support on our approach The Remuneration Strategy has been designed to on page 83 of this report.
to Remuneration at the Annual General Meeting.
reflect the needs of a large multi-national organisation, which is growing both organically Clawback provisions are in place for the Annual through the innovation of products and services Bonus and the LTIP.
and with acquisitions, which enable us to leverage our access to new capabilities and products.
The In addition to these performance related elements, annual bonus incentivises sustainable growth the Committee has decided to award a salary across all areas of the business and the Long Term increase of 6.02% to the Chief Executive and a Incentive Plan LTIP reflects our longer term salary increase of 6.03% to the Finance Director.
growth ambitions, particularly in new markets and These percentage increases are in line with the new products.
overall salary review awarded to all other employees.
In calculating the increase for all other employees, the impact of promotions has been excluded.
Debbie Hewitt Chair of the Remuneration Committee 6 July 2016 72 73 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Remuneration Policy Report Long Incentivise Awards have a performance period of three years.
Award over shares with Term share a face value at grant of The level of vesting is determined by financial measures Incentive ownership 100% of salary p. a.
The Directors Remuneration Policy, approved at the All variable elements of remuneration are subject to appropriate to the strategic priorities of the business, such Plan and as EPS and other measures considered appropriate.
The 2014 AGM, has been reproduced on pages 74 to claw back or repayment by any Executive, where long-term Remuneration Committee has the discretion to determine the 81, save that the remuneration illustrations on page achievement is deemed by the Committee to have performance number of measures to be used.
79 have been updated to accurately reflect the been based upon fraud, deliberate error, or gross in line with Performance below the minimum performance target results Group Directors remuneration for 2016 17. misrepresentation.
Performance between the minimum and strategy.
maximum performance targets results in 20% to 100% of the The Committee has adopted a policy that ensures For the purposes of section 226D 6 b of the award vesting.
an appropriate balance between fixed remuneration Companies Act 2006, the following policy took Should a change in control of the Group occur, crystallisation and performance related incentives.
The effect from 16 September 2014, the date of the of any LTIP awards is within the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
performance related elements have clearly defined 2014 AGM.
stretching targets that link rewards to business Clawback provisions are in place.
performance in the short, medium and long term.
Pension Attract, Executive Directors are entitled to a company pension 10% of basic salary, retain and contribution, which is paid into the Group defined contribution providing they make a reward.
contribution of not less than 5% of basic salary.
They can also opt to have the same level of contribution made Current Policy Table for Executive Directors as a % of salary.
Element Purpose Operation including framework to assess performance Maximum opportunity and link to strategy Salary Attract, The Remuneration Committee reviews salaries for Executive Details of current Choice of performance measures and target setting retain and Directors annually unless responsibilities change.
salaries are set out in reward.
the Annual Report on Pay reviews take into account Group and personal Remuneration page 82. performance and externally benchmarked market data for companies operating in IT services, management consulting Salary increases For both the annual bonus and LTIPs, our policy is In setting targets, the Committee aims to reward and relevant high-tech sectors, which although not directly are normally in line to choose performance measures that help drive steady, progressive growth.
It is the Committees comparable, provides an indicative range.
with those for other and reward the achievement of our strategy and view that inappropriately high targets can employees but also take In setting appropriate salary levels the Committee takes which also provide alignment between Executives encourage inappropriate risk taking and in a Group account of other factors into account pay and employment conditions of employees such as changes to and shareholders.
The Committee reviews metrics where innovation and research is key to Group elsewhere in the Group, alongside the impact of any increase responsibility and the annually to ensure they remain appropriate and Strategy, it could result in these areas being to base salaries on the total remuneration package complexity of the role.
reflect the future strategic direction of the Group.
dispensed with, thereby jeopardising the long Any changes are effective from 1 June each year.
Benefits Attract, Benefits in kind include the provision of a car or car Market competitive With regard to the annual bonus, the Remuneration retain and allowance, payment of private fuel, car insurances, private benefit level.
Committee believes that a simple and transparent With regard to the Long Term Incentive Plan, the reward.
medical insurance, life assurance and permanent health SAYE Sharesave scheme with sufficiently stretching targets and an Committee believes in setting demanding objectives insurance.
Scheme subject to element of bonus deferral prevents short-term in order to motivate and encourage long-term growth Executive Directors may be invited to participate in the HMRC approved limits.
Sharesave Scheme approved by HMRC.
decisions being made and ensures that the and enhance shareholder value.
Executive is entirely focused on the delivery of Annual Drive and Based on a range of stretching targets measured over one Chief Executive 100% sustainable business performance, which Bonus reward year.
This may include, but not exclusively, profit measures of salary.
Finance Director 100% business Performance below the minimum performance target results of salary.
No more than 25% of the maximum opportunity is paid for achievement of the minimum performance target.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the formulaic bonus outcome if individual performance is determined to be unsatisfactory or if the individual is the subject of disciplinary action.
35% of any bonus payment is deferred in shares for 2 years.
Claw back provisions are in place.
74 75 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Differences in pay policy Executive shareholding Non-Executive Director policy table for employees and guidelines Element Purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Executive Directors and link to strategy The Committee considers that each Executive Fees Attract, Fees for the Non-Executive Directors are Current fee levels are Director of the Company should retain a personal The remuneration policy for Executive Directors is retain and determined by the Board within the limits set out in the Annual holding of shares in the Company, the rationale replicated throughout the Group and aims to attract reward set by the Articles of Association and are Report on Remuneration being that this will expose those directors to the and retain the best staff and to focus their based on information on fees paid in similar page 84. same risks and rewards enjoyed by the Companys remuneration on the delivery of long term sustainable companies taking into account the experience shareholders and as such align the interests of of the individuals and the relative time growth by using a mix of salary, benefits, bonus and Executive Directors with the interests of the commitments involved.
Fees for the Non-Executive Directors are Overall fee limit will be As a result, no element of Executive Director reviewed every three years.
within the 300,000 limit The Executive Directors are expected to build and remuneration policy is operated exclusively for set out in the Companys maintain a minimum holding of Company shares Executive Directors: Articles of Association.
worth at least 100% of their base salary.
They have five years from the later of i the date of their The annual performance related pay scheme for respective appointment: and ii the 25 June 2015 Executive Directors is largely the same as that of being the date the guidelines were initially adopted Approach to recruitment the Operational Directors and Senior Managers to attain their minimum shareholding.
within the business and all are aligned with business objectives For the avoidance of doubt, Executive Directors are The principles applied in the recruitment of a new Incentive opportunity.
permitted to sell sufficient shares in order to the Director is for the remuneration package to be set in The aggregate on going incentive opportunity Participation in the LTIP was extended in 2005 meet any tax obligation arising from vesting shares, accordance with the terms of the approved offered to new recruits will be no higher than that to other Senior Executives ensuring consistency notwithstanding that the Executive Director has not remuneration policy for existing Directors in force at offered under the annual bonus plan and the LTIP to in policy and attained their minimum shareholding.
Further detail of this policy the existing Executive Directors.
Different for each element of remuneration is set out below: performance measures and targets may be set The pension scheme is operated for all permanent Both Executive Directors have holdings in the initially for the annual bonus plan, taking into account employees.
Company, as do a significant majority of the the responsibilities of the individual and the point in Salary.
the financial year at which they join.
Salaries for new hires, including internal promotions, will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Companys intended pay positioning and the market Buyout awards.
rate for the applicable role.
Sign-on bonuses are not generally offered by NCC Group but at Board level, the Committee Where it is appropriate to offer a below median may offer additional cash and or share-based salary initially, the Committee will have the discretion buyout awards when it considers these to be in to allow phased salary increases over a period of the best interests of the Company and, therefore, time for newly-appointed Directors, even though this shareholders, including awards made under Listing may involve increases in excess of the rate for the Rule 9.4.
2 R. Any such buyout payments would wider workforce and inflation.
be based solely on remuneration lost when leaving the former employer and would reflect the delivery Benefits.
mechanism such as cash, shares, options, time Benefits will be provided in line with those offered to horizons and performance requirements attaching other Executive Directors, taking account of local to that remuneration.
market practice, with relocation expenses or arrangements provided if necessary.
Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their employment with the Company.
The Company may also pay legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual.
76 77 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Transitional arrangements for Long Term Incentive Plan.
Illustration of remuneration scenarios internal appointments to the Board.
Under the LTIP, unvested awards will normally lapse In the case of an internal appointment, any variable upon cessation of employment.
However, in line with pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may the plan rules, the Committee has discretion to allow The chart below details the hypothetical composition of each Executive Directors remuneration package be allowed to pay out according to its terms on awards to vest at the normal vesting date, or earlier.
and how it could vary at different levels of performance under the policy set out above.
grant, adjusted as relevant to take into account the If the Committee exercises this discretion, awards appointment.
In addition, any other on-going are normally pro-rated to reflect time served since remuneration obligations existing prior to the date of grant and based on the achievement of appointment may continue, provided that they are the performance criteria.
Total Fixed 1,800 put to shareholders for approval at the first AGM Annual Bonus 1,668 following their appointment.
Long-term incentives 1,600 The Executive Directors, where eligible for Policy on payment for loss of office.
participation in all employee share schemes, 1,400 Payments on termination for Executive Directors are participate on the same basis as for other restricted to the value of salary and contractual employees.
1,200 32% benefits for the duration of the notice period.
It is the 1,087 policy of the Remuneration Committee to seek to 8% Approach to service contracts 1,000 mitigate termination payments and pay what is due and letters of appointment.
There are no predetermined special 800 The Committees policy is to offer service contracts provisions for Executive Directors with regard to for Executive Directors with notice periods of six to 612 34% 32% 521 31% 600 compensation in the event of loss of office.
In addition, the Executive Directors 8% are subject to a non-compete clause from the date 400 300 34% 31% Elements of variable remuneration would be treated of termination, where enforceable.
as follows: 200 All Non-Executive Directors appointments are 100% 57% 37% 100% 58% 38% Annual bonus.
terminable on at least three months notice on Fixed Target Maximum Fixed Target Maximum The treatment of annual bonus payments upon either side.
cessation of employment is determined on a case by Chief Executive Officer Finance Director case basis.
When the Committee determines that The Executive Directors and Non-Executive the payment of an annual bonus is appropriate, the Directors offer themselves for re-election every year.
annual bonus payment is typically: Amounts shown in the chart are in 000 payable in cash without deferral pro-rated for the period of time served from the start of the Note that the charts are indicative, as share price movement has been excluded.
Assumptions made for each financial year to the date of termination and not for scenario are as follows.
any period in lieu of notice or garden leave and Minimum.
subject to the normal bonus targets, tested at the Fixed remuneration only salary, benefits and pension.
Salary based on 2016 17 salary and benefits based end of the year, and would take into account on 2015 16 disclosed benefit amounts.
performance over the notice period.
The Committee also has the discretion to determine Fixed remuneration plus target annual bonus opportunity, 370,000 for the Chief Executive and 172,000 whether any deferred shares from previous annual for the Finance Director, which is equivalent to 70% of salary for the Chief Executive and for the Finance bonus payments will vest at the normal vesting date Director, plus 20% vesting of the maximum award under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
or earlier on leaving or whether they lapse.
If the Committee exercises this discretion, they can also Maximum.
determine if the vesting should be pro-rated to Fixed remuneration plus maximum annual bonus opportunity, 528,000 for the Chief Executive and reflect time served since the beginning of the 246,000 for the Finance Director, which is equivalent to 100% of salary for the Chief Executive and deferral date.
100% of salary for the Finance Director plus 100% vesting of the maximum award under the Long Term Incentive Plan which is 100% of salary for both the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
78 79 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Statement of How shareholder views Key areas of discretion in Legacy arrangements consideration of are taken into account the remuneration policy employment conditions For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this elsewhere in the Group Policy Report, authority is given to the Company to The Remuneration Committee considers The Committee operates the Groups variable honour any commitments entered into with current shareholder feedback received on the Directors incentive plans according to their respective rules or former Directors before the current legislation on Remuneration Report each year and guidance from and in accordance with HMRC rules where relevant.
remuneration policies came into force or before an The Remuneration Committee does not consult shareholder representative bodies more generally.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, individual became a Director, such as the payment directly with employees when determining Shareholders views are key inputs when shaping the Committee will apply certain operational outstanding incentive awards, even where it is not remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
When any material changes are discretions.
These discretions are implicit in the consistent with the policy prevailing at the time such However, as stated above, the annual bonus and proposed to the remuneration policy, the policy stated above, but we have listed them for commitment is fulfilled.
LTIP are operated for other employees to ensure Remuneration Committee Chairman will inform clarity.
These include, but are not limited to: alignment of objectives across the Group and the major shareholders in advance and will generally Details of any payments to former Directors will terms of the pension scheme are the same for all offer a meeting to discuss these.
Whether annual bonus is paid to Executives once be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration permanent employees.
In addition, the Committee notice has been served as they arise.. compares information on general pay levels and policies across the Group when setting Executive Discretion in exceptional circumstances to amend Director pay levels.
previously set incentive targets or to adjust the proposed pay-out to ensure a fair and appropriate outcome External Directorships for Executive Directors Certain decisions relating to the Long Term Incentive Plan awards for which the Committee has discretion as set out in the rules of the Executive Directors may accept Non-Executive relevant share plans which have been approved Directorships with the prior agreement of the Board by shareholders: and provided it does not conflict with the Groups interests and the time commitment does not impact The decisions on exercise of claw-back rights.
upon the Executive Directors ability to perform their primary duty.
The Executive Directors may retain the fees from external directorships.
80 81 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
