Strategic Report Training and development Employees NEXT aims to realise the potential of its employees by NEXTs employees are key to achieving its business supporting their career progression and promotion wherever objectives.
NEXT has established policies for recruitment, possible.
It makes significant investment in the training training and development of personnel and is committed to and development of staff and in training and education achieving excellence in the areas of health, safety, welfare programmes which contribute to the promotion prospects and protection of employees and their working environment.
Equal opportunities and diversity Employee communication NEXT is an equal opportunities employer and will continue to NEXT has a policy of providing employees with financial ensure it offers career opportunities without discrimination.
and other information about the business and ensures Full consideration is given to applications for employment that the suggestions and views of employees are taken from disabled persons, having regard to their particular into account.
NEXT has an employee forum made up of aptitudes and abilities.
The Group has continued the elected representatives from throughout the business who employment wherever possible of any person who becomes attend meetings at least twice a year with directors and disabled during their employment.
This forum enables and encourages open training, career development and promotion do not operate discussion on key business issues, policies and the working to the detriment of disabled employees.
The following table shows the gender mix of the Groups employees at the end of the financial year: Employee share ownership Approximately 12,700 employees held options or awards in directors of NEXT plc Subsidiary directors and respect of 5.1 million shares in NEXT at January 2016, being other senior mangers 3.4% of the total shares in issue.
Its employee share ownership trust ESOT purchases shares for issue to employees when their options are exercised.
At the year end the ESOT held 4 12 3 4.3 million shares: the Trustee generally does not vote on this 15 holding on any resolution at General Meetings.
pension provision 7 29 5 29 NEXT provides pension benefits to participating employees, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report and in Note 21 to the financial statements.
At January 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016, there were 1,021 2015: 1,093 active members in the Male Male Male Male Defined Benefit Section of the NEXT Group Pension Plan Female Female Female Female and 2,888 2015: 2,853 UK active members of the Defined Contribution Section.
In addition, 14,583 employees Total employees 2015: 12,114 participate in the Groups Auto Enrolment defined contribution scheme.
16,378 15,447 Social, Community and Human Rights NEXT is committed to the principles of responsible business.
32,115 This means addressing key business related social, ethical 34,347 and environmental matters in a way that aims to bring value to all of its stakeholders.
Senior managers and directors 2016 2015 representing key areas of the business take responsibility for Male Male corporate responsibility and sustainability.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Continuous improvement lies at the heart of NEXTs approach Customers and is achieved through acting in an ethical manner: NEXT is committed to offering stylish, quality products to its developing positive relationships with suppliers: recruiting customers which are well made, functional, safe and are sourced and retaining responsible employees: taking responsibility in a responsible manner.
NEXT technologists work closely with for our impact on the environment and through contributions buyers, designers and suppliers to ensure its products comply to charities and community organisations.
with all relevant legislation and its own internal standards A third party provides independent assurance on the Groups where these are higher.
The expertise of independent safety Corporate Responsibility report which is published on the specialists for clothing, footwear, accessories, beauty and Companys website each year.
NEXT is also a member of the home products is used where required.
NEXT endeavours to provide a high quality service to its FiNd oUT moRE oN oUR WEBSiTE customers, whether they are shopping through its stores, BY viSiTiNg W W W. NE X TPLC.
CO. UK catalogues or website.
NEXT Customer Services interacts CORPOR ATE-RESPONSIBILIT Y with Retail and Directory customers to resolve enquiries and issues.
Findings are recorded and the information is used human rights by other areas of the business to review how a product or service can be improved.
NEXT recognises its responsibility to respect human rights wherever it operates and is committed to upholding all health and safety internationally recognised human rights principles encompassed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the NEXT recognises the importance of health and safety and International Labor Organizations Declaration on Fundamental its management is designed to contribute to business Principles and Rights at Work and to implementing the UN performance.
The Groups objective is to manage all aspects Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
of its business in a safe manner and take practical measures to ensure that its activities and products do not harm the Suppliers public, customers, employees or contractors.
Policies and procedures are reviewed and audited regularly to make NEXT is committed to fulfilling its commitments and following safety management more robust and current.
a detailed initial assessment in 2014 of human rights impacts across the business, is conducting further analysis, focussing Community in particular on our supply chain.
NEXT supports a wide range of charities and organisations, In common with other retailers, NEXTs product supply and provided the following financial support during the year: chain is both diverse and dynamic.
Last year, NEXT used 2016 2015 over 600 third party suppliers with products manufactured 000 000 across 41 countries.
The challenge of trading ethically and Registered charities 1,012 1,003 acting responsibly towards the workers in our own and our Individual requests, local suppliers factories is a key priority which is monitored and and national groups and managed by the NEXT Code of Practice COP Team made organisations 63 183 up of 46 employees based in key sourcing locations.
Commercial support 80 75 NEXTs COP programme is based on the Ethical Trading Initiative base code and international labour conventions and This support was supplemented by the following additional has ten key principles that stipulate the minimum standards activities: with which suppliers are required to comply.
Product teams are 2016 2015 trained on the Code, ensuring they understand the vital role 000 000 they play in our ethical trading programme.
Suppliers have NEXT charity events 64 279 started to receive training to promote human rights awareness Gifts in kind product donations 3,426 1,442 and help them understand the challenges they may face.
Charity linked sales 403 353 The COP team carried out over 2,000 factory audits last year Employee fundraising 43 54 and work directly with suppliers to identify and address causes No donations were made for political purposes 2015: nil.
NEXT also recognises the importance of partnership and collaboration, both with our suppliers and with other brands and organisations to work to resolve some of the complex problems we are unable to solve alone.
