com stock code: NTG Corporate social responsibility We believe that supporting the communities in which we operate and providing a safe environment for our employees is integral to the overall performance of the Group We understand that we have an The Group is committed to all of its During the year the Groups S&E obligation to run our business in a employees acting ethically at all times department carried out formal audit responsible and sustainable way for and has a Code of Business Conduct reviews to measure performance of all stakeholders.
We believe that which communicates expected our S&E management system at all supporting the communities in which behaviour on a range of subjects.
locations and where necessary identified we operate and providing a safe improvements and subsequently We recognise that employees are the environment for our employees is monitored compliance.
The main key resource required to deliver the high integral to the overall performance of objective of the S&E department is to levels of customer service that maintains the Group.
ensure continuous improvement across our competitive advantage and we the Group whilst providing pragmatic How we manage corporate remain committed to equality.
and practical solutions to the operational responsibility risks within the business to all levels As a business we seek to limit our Taking corporate responsibility and of employees, with a strong focus impact on the environment and aim to sustainability seriously is of the on behavioural safety and employee be a good neighbour and member of utmost importance to Northgate.
Sound and robust health & safety and environmental HS&E arrangements and Health & safety performance across Health & safety controls therefore form a key part of the the business is measured using an Our approach to health & safety is Groups overall business strategy.
The AFR simple: to ensure that no harm comes to is calculated as the number of lost time anyone engaged with Northgate.
The Groups arrangements for HS&E incidents, multiplied by 100,000, divided governance and management systems We realise that excellence in health & by the number of man hours worked.
are monitored by the Audit and Risk safety can only be achieved if it forms The AFRs reported are as follows: Committee, who have designated the part of every individuals responsibility Chief Executive as the person ultimately within the Group.
Our Safe & Sound 2016 2015 responsible for implementing best programme creates an environment UK 1.0 1.1 practice throughout the Group.
of openness and awareness, where all Spain 2.2 2.2 colleagues feel able to identify and raise Common and consistent standards in Group 1.4 1.5 concerns about working practices and accordance with legislative and best conditions.
practice requirements are applied across all Group operations.
Risks, controls and The Group provides training for procedures are continually assessed to employees in a wide range of health ensure that everything is being done to & safety disciplines, most of which is meet the highest possible standards of carried out internally by the Groups HS&E requirements using comprehensive Safety & Environment S&E department.
and robust HS&E operating controls.
24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 S U R T. E L B I X E L F STRATEGIC Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016 REPORT 44 45 Celebrating Success adam Cheal Adam is a Warranty Administrator in Barking and received his award for outstanding teamwork after being nominated by a manager from a branch he had been assisting.
Find out more about the Group at: www.
com stock code: NTG Corporate social responsibility CONTINUED As at 30 April 2016, the gender UK Ethics breakdown of the workforce across the Northgate holds the highest levels of The Northgate Sales Academy was Group was: ethical standards and communicates launched in September 2015 to help this to all employees by way of the new colleagues in the sales team to Male Female Groups Code of Business Conduct, settle in quickly through learning Directors 4 2 which covers bribery, competition, partners who ensure an effective conflicts of interest, inside information, Senior induction programme, including Managers 20 3 confidentiality, gifts and entertainment, coaching in the field.
In addition, face discrimination, harassment and fair to face training and support is delivered All dealing with customers and suppliers.
Employees 1,996 863 to existing sales staff.
During the year 42 new colleagues joined the Sales Investing in the training and In addition, the Groups Whistleblowing Academy.
development of our workforce not only Policy and Procedure enables every improves the quality and standard of Group employee to have a voice and Our management assessment our service delivery but enables a high a means by which they may draw programme continued throughout the level of retention and allows everyone concerns to our attention.
year, with 12 managers achieving the to contribute to their full potential.
In Institute of Leadership and Management Our employees addition, Northgate offers colleagues level five.
301 colleagues have begun As a Group we value our employees as a suite of ongoing bespoke training studying for the level two NVQ in we understand that they are the key in various disciplines throughout their customer service, with the first 50 resource required to deliver the high career.
levels of customer service that maintains Regular and consistent communication our competitive advantage.
At 30 April September 2015 saw another 24 and engagement with everyone across 2016 we had 2,859 2015 2,971 technical apprentices join the business.
the business is vital to our success, employees across the Group, 1,865 in Half will spend time with Ford and half ensuring we all share in our values, the UK 2015 2,057 and 994 in Spain with Mercedes Benz as part of their vision, and goals.
12 apprentices from a previous initiatives are currently under way across intake achieved the prestigious Technical We recognise that our employees the business to achieve this and our certificate and enjoyed a Mercedes depend on us and we continually work revised communication strategy will Benz driving experience at Goodwood on improving their engagement and better utilise our new communication as a reward, showing our commitment motivation as the key to delivering channels and further enhance our to supporting colleagues within the high levels of customer service.
Our employee engagement across the business.
employees are rewarded through a business.
combination of competitive pay and Spain Our current emphasis is placed on incentive programmes which enable In the calendar year ending December monthly briefings, face to face meetings, them to share in the progress towards 2015 18 people with disabilities conferencing, conference calls, and the Groups objectives.
were employed, an 80% increase discussions between managers and their on the previous year.
This shows our The Groups policy is to recruit the teams.
These methods will continue commitment to hiring on merit and not best available people who are aligned to be supported by the business as we discriminating on social factors.
with and embody our core values of look towards the transformation of our professionalism, teamwork and canDuring the year Northgate Campus was communication channels.
do attitude and these values apply launched.
This is a bespoke e-learning We understand that communication and throughout the Group regardless of platform customised for the needs of engagement are critical business tools seniority of position.
individuals in order to allow them to and we are striving to promote a sense access timely, relevant training material Northgate is committed to equality, of community at Northgate and ensure tailored to their role within the business.
judging applications for employment that our people work towards the vision Northgate Campus is available to all neither by race, nationality, gender, age, of our desired future.
disability, sexual orientation or political bias.
24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 STRATEGIC REPORT 46 47 air and the ground.
We manage the management systems.
This was Human rights waste streams which are generated complemented with our OHSAS 18001 Information on equality is contained through our activities responsibly and accreditation, confirming that we have above and our corporate responsibility we aim to dispose of waste properly suitable and effective health & safety policy information, which includes in ways which minimise the likelihood management practices in place.
human rights, can be found on the of harming the environment.
Waste is Groups corporate website.
A statement We are currently trialling internal and separated at source and stored until on the Groups compliance with the external LED lights in a number of specialist contractors can dispose of it Modern Slavery Act will be published branches, projections suggest these in the most appropriate and effective on the website within six months of the could save at least 70% on electricity manner.
This includes recycling and year end.
consumption compared to the legacy reducing the amount of waste being bulbs.
16 branches now have energy Environment sent to landfill across our locations.
The management controls fitted, allowing As at 30 April 2016, the UK business Group continues to work closely with its heating to be better controlled according operated from a total of 89 locations, waste management partners to improve to the conditions.
We intend to monitor including 77 rental sites.
The Spanish performance and continually monitors the effectiveness of the trial closely.
business operates from a total of 38 these aspects and the impacts our locations, including 24 rental sites.
The operations have on the environment.
We were able to continue to recycle vast majority of these sites are located or recover 100% of all waste streams UK on industrial estates, so our activities generated and collected from our During the year we participated in have minimal impact on the local vehicle repair workshops in the UK.
We are currently community of the areas in which we Due to adopting sound environmental working through the recommendations operate.
practices across the estate we were also provided as part of this process.
able to recycle 70% of all dry waste For all environmental matters our streams collected from our sites in the policy is to promote and operate We maintained the internationally UK.
In all 90% of dry waste streams processes and procedures, which, so recognised ISO 14001 Environmental collected from our sites were diverted far as is reasonably practicable, avoid or Standard during the year, showing our from landfill in the UK.
minimise the contamination of water, commitment to effective environmental 24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG Corporate social responsibility CONTINUED Spain This has been coupled with other During the year we also increased the environmental campaigns including number and range of electric vehicles We have maintained our ISO 14001 temperature adjustments in facilities, on the fleet.
This gives our customers accreditation in Spain.
Positive measures recycling and reiterating the importance the ability to drive on restricted roads taken to improve environmental that every employee plays in in certain cities and charging is free in performance include installing an environmental matters.
several places, as well as being kinder electric vehicle charging point at our to the environment than traditional head office as well as decreasing both Each depot is audited by a Northgate vehicles.
team at least twice a year with opportunities for improvement We were able to recycle or recover identified and monitored and the results 72% of all waste streams generated are reported to the Group Safety and and collected from our vehicle repair Environment Manager.
Greenhouse gas emissions This section incorporates the mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
Reporting and baseline year The information presented covers the period from 1 May 2015 to 30 April 2016 with a comparison to the prior year.
The base year for calculations is the year ended 30 April 2014.
Consolidation approach and organisational boundary The emissions data presented has been derived using the operational control approach, required under the Regulations.
Each facility under operational control has been included within the figures.
Northgate has used the principles of the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, ISO 14064-1.
Methodology Defras current conversion factors have been used in arriving at the information supplied below.
All six greenhouse gases are reported where appropriate.
Greenhouse gas emissions figures Tonnes of CO e Tonnes of CO e 2 2 Greenhouse gas emissions source 2016 2015 Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 6,201 5,865 Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 4,766 4,343 Intensity ratio: Tonnes of CO e per m of revenue 24.5 22.3 2 The above data has been verified by an independent, UKAS accredited, third party assessor.
UK Our customers and suppliers Our community Northgate recognises the need to We must be a responsible employer, During the year colleagues have support our customers in managing a neighbour and member of the local supported various charities including sustainable business.
We work with our community and therefore operate our Birmingham Childrens Hospital charity, suppliers to make a fleet available to our business in a way that continuously Breast Cancer Now, the victims of customers comprised entirely of modern improves our relationship with flooding in Sowerby Bridge through the vehicles, achieving the highest levels of employees, customers, neighbours and loan of a vehicle, School of Hard Knocks exhaust emission standards.
In Spain we the environment.
through donation of a vehicle and are one of the first businesses to offer collection of Christmas presents for a The Group is a member of the British hire of electric vehicles to our customers.
childrens charity in a Northgate van.
Safety Council and the Royal Society for As at 30 April 2016 the UK fleet of the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA, Spain 53,300 vehicles had an average age of which supports our commitment to The Spanish business has been involved 20.9 months.
The total fleet in Spain corporate social responsibility.
During in helping out at a food bank in was 39,800 vehicles with an average 2015 we received a Silver Occupational Sevilla, collaborating in a charity bike age of 23.3 months.
All vehicles Health and Safety award.
ride supporting a childrens cancer purchased in the year ended 30 April charity and supporting Gavi, a vaccine The Group encourages employees to 2016 met Euro 5 standards.
alliance aimed at widening access to partake in activities in aid of charities: immunisation for children in the worlds poorest countries.
24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 STRATEGIC REPORT 48 49 EDUCATIONAL TRAINEE School and INSTITUTION university partnerships Seeking to prepare individuals for the workplace has been a significant focus for our Spanish business over the past four years.
Since 2012 we have: Worked with 78 schools From these internships we have employed over 30 trainees to provide 300 individuals with internships across all of our These tripartite agreements geographical locations benefit all parties As well as the wider social benefits, Work with social guarantee scholars is The students also benefit from Northgate benefit from having a pool an area we are particularly pleased with.
sessions on employability and of talent where the highest performers Guarantee scholars are those who come workplace behaviour.
From each can join the business with no or little from low income families or families group two or three would typically recruitment cost.
involves the students spending three Our continued commitment to The educational institutions we months learning about every aspect of partner with have fulfilled their duties developing these relationships shows the work of a motor vehicle technician.
our commitment to being a responsible to equip their students for the post This covers both technical aspects and educational world of work.
corporate citizen and enhancing the areas such as Health & Safety.
communities we do business in.
Trainees get the benefit of exposure to real life work experience, support with employability skills and for some the opportunity of a job at the end of the programme.
com stock code: NTG 24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016 50 51 This section explains our approach to governance from Board level down, including governance structures, activities of the various Board committees and the key skills of those charged with governance.
52 Board of Directors 54 Chairmans introduction to governance 55 Introduction to governance 58 Corporate governance 61 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 64 Remuneration report 75 Report of the Directors 78 Directors responsibilities 79 Independent auditors report to the members of Northgate plc 24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6
