Strategic Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 13.
Corporate Responsibility 40 Fresh Fruit Vegetables on Promotion 2016 700 600 500 400 Eating Well 300 Enabling customers to make informed choices 200 about food and nutrition is at the heart of this pillar.
Recognising that we are a very different business 100 to many others in the industry is also a key aspect, 0 and presents a number of opportunities.
Last year we committed to always having at least 100 different fruit and vegetables on promotion at any one time, which we have continued to monitor Financial Year 2015 Financial Year 2016 Target throughout this financial year.
Being online enables us to use technology to offer nutritional information and healthier choice alternatives to our customers as they undertake their shop with us.
During 2016, the Seasonality campaigns have proven particularly popular, highlighting and encouraging customers to eat what is in season, supported by associated recipes and promotions.
In an online world, we cant give customers the opportunity to leave food donations in store, as some retailers do.
So we looked for a better way.
December 2014 saw us launch Donate Food with Ocado, an alternative food donation scheme whereby customers make a financial donation to buy food for our local food bank partners, and we match it with groceries that we donate.
This has continued to prove popular with customers, and during the financial year more than 179,278 of food has been provided to food banks.
The beauty of the scheme is that it allows food banks to get the specific foodstuffs that they need, predominantly fresh, refrigerated products.
Case Study with Ocado that initially saw us able to support The North Warwickshire families and individuals impacted by welfare Food Project reforms via the provision of emergency food Over the last 12 months, the North Warwickshire parcels.
In the last 12 months alone, this has Food Bank, in partnership with the Council, local enabled us to issue over 1,600 food parcels that Citizens Advice Bureau and a homelessness has helped support more than 5,500 individuals.
charity has been supplied almost exclusively Without this support, the ability of these through the fantastic partnership we have with residents to cope with their crisis need would the Ocado operation in Dordon.
This brilliant have been significantly worse and cannot be and innovative arrangement has enabled us to underestimated.
develop a service offer over the last three years North Warwickshire Food Bank partners and volunteers slugline 398 December 2015 665 January 2016 357 February 2016 365 March 2016 455 April 2016 460 May 2016 453 June 2016 337 July 2016 414 August 2016 448 September 2016 370 October 2016 360 November 2016 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Strategic Report 41 Ocado is committed to the upholding of human at a local level across the UK.
During the period, we introduced a Human donations to multiple small, local charities, Rights Policy reflecting our commitment to acting selected by employees across Ocado nationally, ethically and with integrity in all our business rather than providing support only to a single relationships and to implementing and enforcing household name major charity.
We welcome the During the last 12 months, almost 15,000 has introduction of the Modern Slavery Act which is been donated to charities across the UK by designed to root out slavery-like practices, such colleagues activities that have been matched as human trafficking, in global supply chains.
Our in funds by the Ocado Foundation.
Colleagues full modern slavery statement will be published on have also volunteered more than 2,000 hours to a www.
We continue supporting farmers in South Africa The legislation that came into effect in October and Kenya who supply us with fruit and vegetables 2015 requires a 5p charge on all new single use via donating to the Waitrose Foundation.
We carrier bags in England.
Given the aim of the made donations totalling 20,000 during the legislation is to reduce bag littering and damage period of this report.
to wildlife, we believe that this is best done by During the period we also made a donation removing the bags from circulation.
During the of 260,000 to the Prince of Waless Charitable period, we have collected 102.7 million bags Foundation, through sales of Duchy branded from customers preventing them from becoming products.
litter in the first place.
The Ocado Foundation is custodian of the remaining funds from the carrier No donations were made by the Group to any Ocados partnership with WRAP and Recycle Now bag charge and disburses the donations.
political party, organisation or candidate during school campaign the period 2015: nil.
One such example of our donation is our partnership with WRAP and the Recycle Now The Ocado Foundation schools campaign.
Some of the proceeds from the The Ocado Foundation was established in carrier bag charge is funding the development and April 2015 with the aim of our employees and dissemination of primary schools resources about customers helping us make well-aimed actions recycling and sustainability.
Case Study In 2016, Ocado partnered with The Real Junk operation in regards to product sourcing, Food Project TRJFP, a charity intercepting variety and delivery logistics.
The style and food destined for waste and using it to create quality of food and the regularity of deliveries healthy meals for its Pay As You Feel cafes we are receiving from Ocado is incredible.
The located across the UK and worldwide.
variety of Ocado food that weve used to create tasty and healthy meals has attracted more The efficient planning of Ocados business and more customers to the cafs, especially in model means that there is a very small Leeds.
Coupled with that, the Ocado team is amount of food waste.
The area that cannot be able to let us know what well receive the day planned is customer cancellations.
before we collect the products, so our chefs can plan menus in advance.
This ensures no Food is donated to TRJFP when a customer food is wasted in our cafes.
cancels an order that has already been Ocado working with The Real Junk Food Project, picked and packed.
The order is returned Leeds During the year, we have rolled this partnership to the distribution site, stored at the correct out to numerous sites across the UK and temperature and collected every day by TRJFP.
continue to look for innovative ways to reduce Adam Smith, founder of TRJFP, says: Ocado food waste.
runs an incredibly streamlined and efficient slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 14.
We provide access to healthy eating All Employees We Value Our People options with an onsite restaurant: and for all We are a business that values our people.
We our CFC-based employees, there is access to a listen to their opinions on customer service, discounted Company shop.
operational efficiency and what it means to be Weve increased our use of technology for an Ocado employee.
We aim to understand internal communications by introducing mobile our employees as well as we understand our friendly platforms including a new employee customers and innovate and change together to benefits portal MiBenefits and increased the match the pace of growth in our markets.
development of mobile apps MiOcado and We Recruit Talent other web-based plasma technology.
Our business is built by employees who innovate, We also encourage formal two-way who find solutions, and who deliver world class communication through our employee surveys service.
Our recruitment team has been effective in and our employee representative body, the meeting the significant challenge of hiring the new Ocado Council, both of which help us identify employees needed for our continuous growth.
areas where we can improve as an employer and All Employees We opened two spokes in 2016 and moved a third encourage participation and consultation in the to new premises.
Our delivery driver team is the Number of employees as at period end decisions we make.
Ocado maintains a voluntary largest in our business.
We call them our Customer union recognition agreement with USDAW, which Male: 9,809 Service Team Members, and their job title is integrated with our Ocado Council, to voice the Female: 2,093 describes how they are essential to the success of views of our hourly paid employees.
We Develop Our People With our third CFC in Andover now having Training and developing employees is a vital commenced operations and our fourth CFC part of enabling them to forge their career with in Erith under construction, we plan to create Ocado.
We place strong emphasis on developing even more opportunities for existing and new our talent across the business and have further employees in 2017. embedded appraisals, 1:2:1s and 360 degree In September 2016 we brought in a record 47 employee feedback as a development tool.
Using university graduates under our seven separate talent matrix mapping and succession planning graduate training schemes, covering Logistics we also identify potential successors for every Senior Managers Development, Engineering, Finance, General middle and senior management role.
Senior Managers means the Management Committee Management, HR, Retail and Operations excluding Executive Directors as at period end Developing people is exciting, but also a challenge Management, cementing our place as a significant when growing a business as fast as we are.
We employer and creator of new graduate jobs.
Male: 8 now have an in-house management training Female: 1 curriculum of more than 300 e-learning modules Diversity and over 30 different workshops, team building We value diversity and through our equal days, a learning library and provide individual opportunities policy we are dedicated to creating coaching.
an environment that is free from discrimination, harassment and victimisation.
Everyone at MiLearning Platform Ocado is treated equally regardless of age, colour, At Ocado we recognise the importance of meeting disability, race, gender, sexual orientation, marital colleagues learning and development needs in status, political views or religious belief.
the most flexible way possible.
The adjacent charts show a breakdown of the So, weve developed an online platform that number of people who were on the Board, Senior delivers beyond the more traditional classroomDirectors Managers and employees of the Group at the end based training.
of the period by number and gender.
Number of Directors as at period end MiLearning has a wealth of information and Engaging Our People learning activities and provides a gateway to: Male: 9 This extends beyond keeping colleagues Female: 2 Explore and diagnose learning needs informed of the Companys performance and issues that affect them day to day.
These range Identify solutions to address learning needs from redesigning uniforms in conjunction with Record learning and development activities employee representatives, to relocating our head office to one with a higher quality work Share learning activities with others slugline 2012: 5,536 2013: 6,709 2014: 8,589 2015: 10,181 2016: 11,902
