com Strategic Report 43 Retaining, Recognising and Strategic Report Approval Rewarding Our People Case study The Companys Strategic Report is set out on pages 6 to 43.
As we invest a significant amount of time and MiBenefits an online benefits portal resources in recruiting the right people and is accessible on any device for remote The Strategic Report is approved by the Board and developing their skills, retaining our employees and non-desk based employees to see signed on its behalf by is vitally important to the business.
This means personalised information about Ocado designing benefits packages that are in tune with share plans, plus a variety of rewards and what different groups of employees want.
This discounts on Ocado, Fabled, Fetch and Neill Abrams year information about Reward and Benefits were Sizzle, as well as high street shops, gyms, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary moved to an online portal MiBenefits a mobile theme parks, and more.
Ocado Group plc friendly platform designed especially for every 31 January 2017 Employees can view their current pension employee so they see only what is relevant and membership, change contribution levels, or available to them.
For the first time, we will be join leave a pension scheme.
They can also producing a personalised Total Reward Statement change their beneficiary and much more.
In for each employee, setting out the full value of the future, MiBenefits will provide employees their remuneration.
with an opportunity to flex the benefits they We have a range of traditional benefits and an receive, giving our employees further choice.
industry leading 15% employee discount on all shopping at Ocado.
We have a commitment to ensuring that all employees share in the Groups success through various equity schemes.
Employees are also able to buy Ocado shares with pre-tax income, and we have a Save As You Earn scheme that allows employees to save up to buy Ocado shares at a pre-set price.
For the third year running we also gave free shares equivalent to 1% of basic pay to all employees with six months or more service.
We strive to make Ocado an employer of choice and our comprehensive employee benefits package includes pension schemes with employer contribution, and an employee assistance programme for all.
People Values Were Value in it each together person Love We can what be even we do better slugline 44 slugline Governance 45 15.
