Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 12 Business Old Mutual review Emerging Markets Africa.
AIVA continues to deliver results our position as South Africas leading South Africa through its third-party agency channel in life insurer.
Based on market share data as In South Africa we have strong market the affluent segment in Mexico.
at June 2016, we remain the largest market share positions in life, property & casualty participant with respect to Annual Premium insurance, asset management and credit Asia Equivalent APE and have improved our solutions.
We continue to build leading In China and India we look to provide market share by 1.4% across the big five businesses with attractive economics leading life insurance and investment competitors over the past year and by 3.7% through growing distribution scale, solutions to retail customers through a over the past five years achieving a total product innovation, strong partnerships, partnership model, leveraging our product market share of over 29%.
In addition to brand strength, ability to cross-sell, and and distribution capabilities in South Africa gaining APE market share, we have also realising the retailisation opportunity and competing on a differentiated basis.
significantly increased our share of VNB to in the corporate customer base.
40%, gaining c. 9% over one year and 1 1% Rest of Africa over five years.
In the Mass and Foundation We aim to expand our operations through Our market Cluster MFC we have maintained our both acquisitions and organic growth.
Over dominant position with 58% across the environment the past year we have significantly increased big five, increasing by c. 10% over the past our sales force, continued building strategic five years.
Our Retail Affluent business partnerships and alliances, and developed maintained an 18% share over both Macroeconomic headwinds continued several innovative new solutions to meet one and five year periods.
Old Mutual to challenge many of the markets in which our customers financial needs.
Corporate continues to perform excellently we operate, with market and currency gaining 5% life APE share over the past volatility remaining high in a year of many We have leading market share positions year and c. 6% over the past five years, unexpected global events and an uncertain in the Southern African Development now holding a 35% market share.
Climatic Community SADC markets, where & Federal M&F South Africa remains conditions were also severe in many of our we offer leading financial solutions the industrys second-largest property markets with an extended drought further to our retail and corporate customers.
& casualty player, with 1 1% of total hampering economic growth and extreme gross premiums written.
We are on track to realise our vision of weather events permeating through the becoming an East African financial services year.
The regulatory environment remains Rest of Africa champion.
Through our recent acquisitions dynamic across our businesses and Although the US Dollar remains of UAP and Faulu, we are now in a position markets.
For example, regulated interest Zimbabwes official currency, bond notes to deliver an integrated financial services rate caps have been introduced in South were introduced in November 2016 and model which will enable us to offer a full Africa and Kenya, which have impacted the equity market responded with a 30% suite of financial solutions to customers.
our lending operations in both markets.
rally as investors moved capital to safer Although the operational performance of value investments.
Many African countries the combined UAP-Old Mutual delivered South Africa experienced currency depreciation in 2016, results approximately one year behind our During 2016 South Africa averted a credit with Nigeria the most notable with a 50% initial expectations, we believe that our rating downgrade of its sovereign debt to depreciation in the official rate, whilst the desired return on investment will be sub-investment grade status, however, the East African economies were generally achieved in the medium term.
threat of a downgrade remains with all more stable.
ratings agencies placing the country on In West Africa, our businesses in Ghana a negative outlook.
The South African We continue to hold dominant market and Nigeria are still relatively small but we equity market enjoyed strong growth positions in the SADC region, with leading are growing through our bancassurance during the first half but a slowdown in market positions in Malawi, Namibia and partnership with Ecobank Transnational the second half of the year, and by the end Zimbabwe.
In our key growth markets of Inc. ETI and by leveraging our established of December the All Share index was still East and West Africa, we are developing capabilities for delivering competitive c. 7% below the all-time peak reached early rapidly from a relatively small base.
The rand made a strong recovery In East Africa we are leveraging our in the second half of the year to trade recent acquisitions towards becoming Latin America around R14 US Dollar, after reaching its East Africas leading integrated financial In Colombia, Mexico and Uruguay, we look weakest levels in history relative to major services provider.
In West Africa our to provide leading life insurance, investment currencies in Q1 2016. growth is driven primarily through our and asset management solutions to our bancassurance partnership with ETI, customers.
We are focused on driving Despite a challenging environment, leveraging our established capabilities growth through high-quality distribution we successfully protected and grew to deliver competitive customer solutions.
relationships by leveraging our product and distribution capabilities in South
