Nedbank Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 23 Business Nedbank review Our market environment Nedbank ranks as a top-five bank by Nedbank ranks as a top-five bank by assets on the African continent assets on the African continent and and is South Africas fourth-largest ETI ranks within the top 10.
We are South Africas fourth-largest bank by market bank by market capitalisation, capitalisation, total assets and headline total assets and headline earnings earnings.
We are a top-two corporate bank and a market leader in commercial property and renewable energy and have a strong position in household motor finance, household deposits and card acquiring.
Through our pan-African banking alliance with ETI we give our over-reliant on oil and resource-linked by, clients.
Personalisation, convenience customers access to Africas largest revenues.
The timeframe of the Africa and security are top of mind as digital banking network.
rising narrative has become less certain, adoption outpaces predictions.
However, with varied schools of thought on how soon it is estimated that over 90% of retail Market dynamics these economies could recover.
Over the transactions in Sub-Saharan Africa are Unprecedented and accelerated change longer term, sustainable economic growth still cash-based, creating a significant has resulted in uncertainty and volatility in the Rest of Africa is estimated to be three opportunity for growth in digital banking across many fronts including political, to five times higher than in South Africa.
economic, social, technological and digital, environmental and regulatory.
Effectively Social drivers Regulatory drivers managing the increased risks to delivery Despite decades of growth and rising The global financial crisis brought and execution is as critical as harnessing per-capita income in Africa, social, increased regulatory measures to ensure the power of accelerated change for environmental and economic challenges the soundness of banks and the protection outperformance to achieve our strategic such as poverty, inequality, resource of consumers: the most prominent of these objectives and meet our stakeholders constraints and climate change have are the Basel III regulations on capital evolving expectations.
In Sub-Saharan Africa adequacy, liquidity and risk data particularly, many of these issues are aggregation: anti-money laundering Macroeconomic drivers growing in both urgency and gravity.
regulations: the Retail Distribution Growth in South African economic output Review: the National Credit Act: and is slowly recovering: but it is still weak Competitive drivers International Financial Reporting and confidence remains low.
Political Competition continues to intensify among Standard 9: Financial Instruments.
developments and lack of progress on financial service providers as both policy reform present an ongoing risk established and new entrants target the Environmental drivers of a sovereign ratings downgrade to same client base.
In addition, new entrants Protecting the environment and sub-investment grade.
The rand remains are joining the market from other industries contributing to the development of volatile, with unfavourable domestic such as telecommunications and fintech.
sustainable food and energy resources political developments hurting the currency are imperative without which we Technological drivers and increasing South Africas risk premium.
would compromise the ability of future The fourth industrial revolution is driving generations to meet their needs.
In the Rest of Africa, most economies are exponential advancement of technology, still struggling to address the structural forcing financial institutions to rethink and fiscal implications of lower commodity the way they do business and choose to prices and accompanying lower growth.
New digital technologies are In the short term we expect continued reshaping the value proposition of existing pressure and volatility, particularly in those financial products and services and the countries that are less diversified and way these are delivered to, and consumed
