Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 99 The Group Audit Committee has approved detailed guidelines as part of the Groups policy on non-audit services, which are summarised in the Corporate Governance section of our website.
Risk assessment and financial control environment What is the Companys internal control We remain committed to environment and having a robust internal how is it monitored?
The Groups finance function actively control environment monitors the quality of the Groups across the Group financial reporting controls, by seeking positive affirmation from its principal subsidiary businesses twice-yearly to the effect that key controls safeguarding reliable, accurate and timely Group external IFRS reporting are in place and operating effectively.
Management assessed the effectiveness of this framework at 31 December 2016, based on the criteria described in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, The quality of internal and external Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the and concluded that it was effective.
reporting system of internal control by the Group Management reports on the status of these Compliance with applicable laws and Audit Committee, which receives reports regulations, and with internal policies on from the Group Internal Audit function.
controls to the Group Audit Committee, and the conduct of business.
The committee also receives reports from this has enabled the committee to support the external auditor, which include details the Board in concluding that it can rely on The system of internal control is designed of significant internal control matters that the operation of these controls as part of to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk have been identified during the course of its review of internal control effectiveness of failure to achieve the Groups business their work.
It can only provide reasonable, These activities supplement the regular and not absolute, assurance against An ongoing process for identifying, risk management activities which are material misstatement or loss.
evaluating and managing the significant performed on an ongoing basis.
risks faced by the Group and its businesses The Groups actions to review the The certification process described above has been in place for the year ended 31 effectiveness of the system of internal does not apply to some joint ventures December 2016 and up to this reports date control include: where the Group does not exercise full of approval, as described in more detail An annual review of the risk assessment management control.
Further details of the Groups risk procedures, control environment Company monitors the internal control and capital management disciplines are considerations, information and environment and the potential impact on described earlier in this Annual Report.
communication and monitoring the Group through representation on the procedures at Group level and within The Board has overall responsibility for board of the entity concerned.
This review covers all the Groups system of internal control and material controls including financial, The Board reviewed the effectiveness of for reviewing its effectiveness, while the operational and compliance controls the system of internal control during and implementation of internal control systems and risk management systems at the end of the year.
Our annual internal is the responsibility of management.
A certification process, under which all control assessment has not highlighted any Executive management has implemented businesses are required to confirm that material failings.
We remain committed an internal control system designed to they have undertaken risk management to having a robust internal control help ensure: in accordance with the Group risk environment across the Group.
framework, that they have reviewed the The effective and efficient operation effectiveness of the system of internal of the four businesses by enabling controls, that internal policies have been management to respond appropriately complied with, and that no significant risks to significant risks to achieving the or issues are known which have not been Groups business objectives reported in accordance with policy The safeguarding of assets from inappropriate use or from loss and fraud and ensuring that liabilities are identified and managed
