Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 32 Business Old Mutual review Wealth Expenditure is closely managed as we A smaller adviser pool combined with the Our market seek to leverage scale benefits and UKs ageing population, the largest savings identify efficiencies across the business.
gap in Western Europe and the significant environment We continue to invest in the growth of our pension regulation change in 2015 means business: identifying developments and that the demand for wealth solutions is acquisitions that will drive future revenue.
Worldwide investment markets were high.
The UK wealth market, our major An element of our cost base is linked to volatile over 2016 with investors cautious market, has an investable asset pool of funds under management FUM, an due to uncertainty in the lead up to, and some 3 trillion.
Following considerable example of which is variable compensation after the outcome of, the UKs EU reforms of both wholesale and retail in our asset and discretionary fund referendum and the US presidential financial services sectors, covering both management businesses.
By 31 December, markets had conduct and capital adequacy, the growth IT transformation is a significant cost focus, recovered from the lows following the prospects of the UK market presents a with enhanced independent oversight and referendum result.
considerable opportunity for us as it governance enabling us greater assurance continues to recover from the global The Investment Association reported that over the remainder of the programme.
the UK retail fund management market experienced unprecedented outflows In a dynamic and evolving industry, we Our IT transformation during 2016.
Total net retail fund flows of compete with traditional insurers, asset We are continuing with our UK platform 4.7 billion were significantly lower than managers, investment managers and transformation.
We gave guidance at the flows in 2015 16.8 billion.
Risk-adjusted financial advice providers, the bulk of October 2016 Capital Markets Day as to absolute return asset classes remained which are focused on single components timing and cost.
Costs to 31 December 2016 popular as investors continued to look of the wealth management value chain.
amount to 279 million, which have been for alternative investment options to We offer integrated wealth and asset expensed and which reflect the benefit seek positive returns in the low interest management solutions that give our of a 30m receivable from our suppliers.
customers access to the entire wealth Whilst progress continues to be made, this management spectrum, enabling us to remains a complex project, and there are Our research has shown that investors deliver the best possible outcomes for certain pressures which, potentially, could receiving regular financial advice our customers.
Each business within increase timescales and costs.
We are achieve significantly better outcomes Old Mutual Wealth strives to be a in active negotiations on these areas to than those who have never sought advice leader in its respective market.
reduce delivery and cost risk and to Retirement Income Uncovered report ensure we achieve the best outcome 2015.
This finding underpins our firm We continue to secure our competitive for the business.
At this point, because belief in improving access to financial position by investing to make our platforms of commercial confidentiality and the advice for the UK market in order to market-leading, addressing industry-wide ongoing negotiations, it would be generate good customer outcomes, which technology issues by providing a inappropriate to disclose further details.
led to our acquisition of Intrinsic, the UKs future-ready digital wealth platform We expect to be able to update the market second-largest restricted financial adviser and ensuring that we can enable by the time of the Old Mutual plc AGM in network, in 2014.
Intrinsic enables us to positive futures for our customers.
A robust platform that meets advise and assist on the financial plans The new Solvency II regime became customer needs is vital for our future of a wide cross-section of society and in effective for our UK, Ireland and Italy and we continue to invest in the existing turn generate prosperity for present and regulated businesses from 1 January 2016. platform to maintain high levels of service future generations.
Our solvency position has remained and resilience.
robust following the regulation change.
The regulatory landscape continues to evolve, with 2016 seeing wide-scale Financial Conduct Authority FCA reviews such as the Financial Advice Market Review and the Asset Management Market Study.
We have fully contributed to both.
