Strategic report Financial statements Governance 47 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our customers are part of our success and we aim to become Operating sustainably and responsibly a financial services provider of choice.
To achieve that, the is integral to our business model and Group established a governance framework for consistent best practice across the Group to ensure there are robust policies strategy, and builds on OneSavings and procedures to minimise the risk of failure to deliver the Banks long tradition of putting the service our customers have come to expect from us.
customer at the heart of everything The relevant policies include: we do.
Conduct Risk policy, including treating customers fairly to ensure the Group conducts its business fairly and without Our Core Values: Specialist, Personal and Flexible causing customer detriment reflect our commitment to interact ethically, Responsible Lending Policy to ensure that the Group lends responsibly, and with integrity with all our money responsibly stakeholders and the wider community in which we Complaints Handling Policy to ensure the group responds to operate: complaints swiftly, fairly and consistently We take a SPECIALIST approach to everything we Vulnerable Customer and Suicide Awareness Policy to do we ensure we understand our stakeholders ensure that employees can identify vulnerability and requirements and use our creativity, skill and potential suicide risks in our customers and put in place expertise to fulfil their requirements with honesty appropriate actions to deal with such issues as effectively and integrity as possible We take a PERSONAL approach to everything we do Anti-Money Laundering Policy to ensure the Group is not we treat everyone with respect and take used to further criminal activities accountability for our actions Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy to ensure the Group We take a FLEXIBLE approach to everything we do carries out its business honestly we ensure that we work collaboratively with our A Conflicts of Interest Policy to ensure the Group can colleagues, customers and other stakeholders to identify and if possible avoid conflicts, and where this is not achieve shared positive outcomes possible to manage conflicts fairly We aim to be FAIR to our colleagues, customers Data Protection Policy to ensure the Group protects its and stakeholders developing long-term customer data and manages it fairly relationships Whistleblowing Policy to ensure that any employee who raises concerns around misconduct is protected Environmental Policy to conduct our business in an environmentally aware manner WHAT WE ACHIEVED Diversity and Equality Policy to promote diversity and In 2016 we successfully delivered on a number of equality in our workforce initiatives across the business aimed at improving our relationships with key stakeholders and achieving Employees have mandatory training on all the key policies, strong results.
ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 Customers consistently high consumer net promoter score 59% Employees committed to signing HM Treasurys Women in Finance Charter in order to promote gender diversity throughout the Group Communities donated over 136,000 to Great Ormond Street Hospital FOCUSED ON OUR CUSTOMERS OneSavings Bank OSB encourages a culture that aims to: communicate and deal with each customer on an individual basis act with consistency across all channels be a confident, open and trustworthy workforce offer simplicity and ease of business offer long-term value for money, and offer transparent products without the use of short-term bonus rates, and to offer the same rates to both existing and potential customers 48 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED DIGITAL BANKING CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT We aim to make banking easier for our customers and as such We take a personal approach to our customers, treating each we continue to invest in digital banking and upgrades to our customer as an individual and listening to their needs.
Many of infrastructure which make a significant difference in allowing our customers are also members of the Kent Reliance our customers better access to their money.
This includes Provident Society, the society that took over the management security, internet capability and handling services.
of the membership of the former Kent Reliance Building Society.
The Bank and the Society have benefited from In 2016, our customers benefited from refurbishment that member engagement through the online portal launched took place in a number of our branches and we introduced late in 2015 enabling input from a geographically broader online statements for all of our customers.
In November, our range of members.
Topics of engagement have included key savings proposition was also extended to private limited SMEs areas of customer literature, working with saving and and we are developing additional services for our new borrowing members helping the Bank to maximise clarity and business savings customers.
understanding, and product retention process enhancement.
Each year we hold an AGM at which members can engage CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS with senior management and discuss their ideas for improving Whilst we concentrate on providing an excellent service, when our customer experience.
things have gone wrong, we aim to put this right and learn from any mistakes made.
We have a comprehensive, GroupOur commitment to our customers is evidenced in the strong wide complaints handling system and our staff complete net promoter score a measure of how likely a customer is to rigorous training programmes to ensure a compliant and fair recommend a business on a scale of -100 to 100 we achieve process is followed.
across our lending and saving franchises which in 2016 has improved to 59%.
In addition, we won numerous awards for FOCUSED ON OUR EMPLOYEES being the best provider for a range of services from cash ISAs Our employees are our key asset.
Their skills, expertise and to Buy-to-Let mortgages.
enthusiasm are central to achieving our strategic goals, and we continue to invest in their training and development and KENT RELIANCE SAVINGS employee engagement activities to make OSB the best work place it can be.
WINNER: Best Bank Savings Provider, Moneyfacts Awards 2016 for the second year running Our recruitment process is fair and inclusive, with shortlisting, interviewing and selection always carried out without regard WINNER: Best Cash ISA Provider, Moneyfacts Awards to gender, gender reassignment, sexual orientation, marital or 2016 for the fourth year running civil partnership status, colour, race, caste, nationality, ethnic or national origins, religion or belief, age, pregnancy or WINNER: Best No Notice Account Provider, Moneyfacts maternity leave or trade union membership.
No candidate Awards 2016 for the second year running with a disability is excluded unless it is clear that the candidate is unable to perform a duty that is intrinsic to the role, having WINNER: ISA Provider of the Year, Consumer taken into account reasonable adjustments.
Reasonable Moneyfacts 2016 adjustments to the recruitment process are made to ensure that no applicant is disadvantaged because of his her WINNER: Best Regular Savings Provider, Moneynet disability and questions asked during the process are not in Awards 2016 any way discriminatory or unnecessarily intrusive.
KENT RELIANCE FOR INTERMEDIARIES RETENTION AND TRAINING We encourage employees to carry out their work to the best of WINNER: Best Specialist Lender, What Mortgage their ability and promote learning and skills development Awards 2016 opportunities across the organisation.
Our Learning and Development team manage the allocation and completion of WINNER: Best Buy-to-Let Mortgage Provider, Personal regular mandatory e-learning modules and delivery of Finance Awards 2015 2016 for the second year running in-house workshops, programmes and coaching in addition to coordinating employees attending external or in-sourced training activities and supporting staff undertaking professional development.
In 2016, the completion rate for our mandatory monthly online compliance training was 100%, demonstrating the importance we place on ensuring our employees are suitably aware of key requirements.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 49 While we are still a relatively small business in terms of EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT employee numbers, we actively advertise vacancies internally In 2016, for the second time, our employees completed The to provide career development opportunities for existing Sunday Times Best Companies Employee Engagement survey, employees.
In 2016, we filled 24% of vacancies 54 of 221 achieving an overall score that put us in the Best Companies with internal candidates.
Take-up of the opportunity to give feedback to the business was very strong at around 80% and Our regretted attrition rate in 2016 was 12% for our UK-based highlighted a strong alignment of our people with the employees and 17% for our employees in India.
2016 also saw Company and their teams.
the introduction of our long service awards in order to recognise employee loyalty with the awards increasing in To utilise the feedback from the survey in the most efficient value for each five years of tenure.
We are proud that our way, we established the Employee Engagement Team who longest serving employee has been with the Group for actively engage with our staff and collect ideas to further 32years.
The initiatives that were introduced throughout the business as a result included an TALENT MANAGEMENT AND LEADERSHIP PROGRAMMES employee recognition programme, enhanced induction We have recently undertaken a talent mapping exercise and workshop, leadership development programme, the election have identified the employees who constitute our primary and of Groups charities, a paid volunteering day a year and free core talent pools based on their performance and potential.
The Employee Engagement Team will be range of talent management activities will be undertaken in busy in 2017 with more suggestions going live during the year.
2017 in order to assist in developing, motivating and retaining identified employees.
Employees are kept informed of developments within the business and in respect of their employment through a variety of means, such as a new Company newsletter, regular town 2016 saw the launch of OSBs Leadership Development hall meetings, regular briefings and use of our intranet.
Programme with 20 managers each completing the eight Employee involvement is encouraged and views and separate day-long modules that make up the programme.
The suggestions are taken into account when planning new success of the programme has led to another 30 managers products and projects.
signing up to undertake the Leadership and Development Programme in 2017.
EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION AND AWARDS We are proud that the expertise of our employees was REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS recognised in 2016 by the industry.
Dawn Mirfin, our Group We believe in rewarding our employees fairly and Head of Underwriting, was the recipient of the Operation transparently, enabling them to share in the success of the Credit Risk Person of the Year category award at the British business.
Details of the Groups remuneration policies can be Mortgage Awards 2016.
This award recognises those who found in the Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 90. delivered strong initiatives in the last year to improve the quality of business, overall performance and or controls within We offer our employees a comprehensive range of benefits, their lender which demonstrates that they are exceptional in and continue to review these to ensure they are in line with their position.
Although the list is not exhaustive, our benefits include pension contributions, medical insurance, life Our Chief Executive Officer, Andy Golding, also received the cover, a childcare voucher scheme, interest free season ticket 2016 Leadership Award from Mortgage Finance Gazette which loan and a cycle purchase scheme.
acknowledges his leadership efforts in relaunching and refocusing OneSavings Bank to become a successful FTSE 250 We also encourage our employees to hold shares in the Bank company.
for the long term, and offer a Sharesave scheme.
The scheme is open to all UK-based employees and allows them to save a fixed amount of between 5 and 500 per month over either HEALTH AND SAFETY three or five years in order to use these savings at the end of We have a duty of care to all of our employees, and a safe and the qualifying period to buy the Companys shares at a fixed healthy work environment is paramount to OneSavings Bank.
price established when the scheme was announced.
The We are committed to fostering and maintaining a working Group launched its first Sharesave scheme in June 2014 and environment in which our employees can flourish, and our granted further options under the scheme in June 2015 and customers can safely transact with us.
As at December 2016, 44% of employees were participating in one of these schemes.
We operate a Group Health and Safety Policy and we review our employee and customer environment regularly.
ACTIVITIES IN 2016: We introduced a monthly Health and Safety report which details the Banks performance with regards to workplace hazards Statutory Health and Safety training has been added for all Group employees 50 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION HUMAN RIGHTS We recognise the benefits of diversity, including gender We want each member of our workforce and wider diversity, throughout the Group and work to ensure that there stakeholders to be treated with dignity and respect.
OSB is an appropriate balance of skills and experience across the endorses the UN Declaration of Human Rights and supports Group.
the UN Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights.
The Group adheres to the International Labour Organisation Over 59% of our workforce is female, we have three female Fundamental Conventions.
We seek to engage with directors 27% of Board and two female members of the stakeholders with fairness, dignity and respect.
In our office in India, women constitute does not tolerate child labour or forced labour.
OSB respects 37% of the total workforce.
freedom of association and the rights of employees to be represented by trade unions or works councils.
The Group is a Male Female fair employer and does not discriminate on the basis of Number of Board Directors 8 3 gender, religion, age, caste, disability or ethnicity.
Our policy applies throughout the Group and is communicated to our Number of Directors of subsidiaries 10 1 employees during their induction training.
We encourage Number of senior managers suppliers and business partners to adhere to the same not directors 40 12 principles.
1 All other employees 301 354 In 2015, the Modern Slavery Act came into force and it encompasses slavery, human trafficking, forced labour and 1.
Includes OSBIndia domestic servitude, and applies not only to OSB as a Group but also to our supply chain.
OSB will take steps to promote and In early 2017, the Group became a signatory to the HM continually improve our commitment to eliminating abuse Treasurys Women in Finance Charter.
The Charter is a and exploitation in the workplace and we will publish our commitment of the Bank and HM Treasury to work together to modern slavery statement in the coming months.
To do that, promote better gender balance in the financial services actions are being taken throughout the organisation to ensure industry.
The pledge includes appointing a senior executive we are well prepared not only to support the required who is responsible for gender equality, setting internal targets, disclosure but are also vigilant to any form of forced labour in publishing progress against the targets and taking steps to link all of the locations from which we operate including our senior executives pay to delivery of these gender diversity suppliers.
Accordingly, we have appointed Jason Elphick, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, as the senior OSB INDIA executive responsible for gender diversity throughout the OSB India OSBI is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group.
Group and our Board approved a target of 30% of OSBs senior OSBI operates from an office in Bangalore and currently management roles to be represented by women by 2020. employs 276 staff.
Customer support and some of the Groups back office processing is provided by OSBI.
We actively We are continuously tracking the take up of flexible working promote integration between our colleagues in the UK and arrangements and other gender related metrics going India with frequent employee exchanges, transfers, overseas forward, and will assess whether any further measures or training and management visits.
measurable objectives need to be put in place.
In 2016, as a result of the employee survey, we extended paid maternity As part of the Group, OSBI falls under the same Group policies and paternity leave.
Unconscious bias training has been that are in force in the UK offices, most importantly: equal included in a number of workshops for line managers during opportunities, non-discrimination and harassment policies, the year, being a direct outcome of our 2015 gender diversity whistleblowing policy, information security and clear desk review.
In the coming months, we plan to extend this training policies.
There are only very slight differences in the Groups to all employees.
main HR policies due to the national legislation.
In compliance with the Modern Slavery Act, we do not support excessive overtime and India employees are encouraged to work in accordance with national legislation.
The staff in the Bangalore office enjoy benefits which include 21 days of annual leave, 10 days sick leave and cafeteria services.
In the early part of 2016, OSBI moved offices to further enhance the working environment for our Indian colleagues.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 51 Periodically measure and report on its performance in FOCUSED ON THE ENVIRONMENT keeping with relevant national and international standards, As an office based financial services provider, we have a and where applicable, have its environmental performance relatively low environmental impact.
and reporting independently assured Commit to continual improvement and developing Despite this, we remain committed to conducting our business objectives and targets for reducing our environmental in an environmentally responsible way and whenever we can, impacts to reduce consumption of the resources and our negative impact on the environment in which we operate.
We also apply environmental principles when selecting suppliers and now employ a cleaning company that offsets its In 2016, we delivered on our goal to establish a formal carbon emission by planting trees.
Environmental Policy which confirms that OSB aims to: Respect the environment ACTIVITIES IN 2016 Comply with all relevant environmental laws and We have implemented a programme of environmental regulations initiatives and identified areas where we can do more to Take action to minimise the direct and indirect impacts of reduce impact throughout the Group.
Activities during the its operations on the environment and environmental year included: performance Improvements made to real estate resulting in reduction of Set, monitor and review environmental objectives and energy consumption targets for operations across the organisation on a periodic Introduction of secure print solutions in all offices which basis significantly lowered paper consumption Communicate our policy to all employees, business Online statements are now offered to all of our customers partners and make it assessable to customers and any Zero to Landfill waste policy in operation which means we interested shareholders either recycle, reuse or send all of our waste to a dedicated Engage employees in the delivery of its environmental Energy From Waste facility strategic agenda and support them in practical ways so they can reduce their own environmental footprints GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS CO e tonnes 2 LocationMarketbased based Emission type method method Scope 1: Operation of facilities 125 Scope 1: Combustion 383 1 TOTAL SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS 508 508 Scope 2: Purchased energy UK 364 335 1 Scope 2: Purchased energy rest of world 386 386 TOTAL SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS 750 721 Total emissions 1,258 1,229 1.
Location based figure used where market based not available 52 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED EMISSIONS BREAKDOWN BY SOURCE tCO e 2 Electricity 59% Natural Gas 6% LPG Other Delivered Fuels 25% F-Gas 10% EMISSIONS BREAKDOWN BY CATEGORY tCO e 2 Operation of Facility 10% Purchased Energy 6% Combustion 30% GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY RATIO: Total footprint Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO e 2 Previous year Current year Year on year 2015 2016 variance Turnover m 162.5 201.0 23.7% Intensity ratio Scope 2 location based method tCO e 100,000 0.004 0.004 2 Intensity ratio Scope 2 market based method tCO e 100,000 0.003 0.003 2 Notes: Our methodology has been based on the principles of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, taking account of the 2015 amendment which sets out a dual reporting methodology for the reporting of Scope 2 emissions.
This means that UK electricity is reported using two methods This includes emissions under Scope 1 and 2, except where stated, but excludes any emissions from Scope 3 Conversion factors for UK electricity location-based methodology, gas and other emissions are those published by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs for 2016 17 Conversion factors for UK electricity market-based methodology are published by electricityinfo.
org The market based methodology has only been applied to UK electricity supplies Conversion factors for overseas electricity, gas and other emissions are those published by the International Energy Agency for 2016 Conversion factor used for R417A F-gas is published by Linde Gas Conversion factor used for R22 F-gas is published by Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs for 2016 17 In addition, due to expansion of the India offices in 2016, there is an associated increase in total tCO e reported 2 It has been confirmed there is no LPG use within the estate either in the UK or overseas It has been confirmed that there is no mains gas supply in relation to the India operations Two UK sites: Heritable and InterBay, have been excluded from reporting as it has been confirmed that these are managed rented properties and are therefore considered to be Scope 3 emissions and are not readily available We have reported on all the measured emissions sources required under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, except where stated The period of our report is 1 January 201631 December 2016 An increase in the availability of data this year has meant that the scope of the emissions reporting has increased.
In addition to the emission sources reported in 2015, the following sources have now been accounted for: F-gas India Diesel generators India Disaster Recovery Unit Electricity and Diesel India As a result, reported emissions this year have increased Statement of exclusions Global diesel petrol use for vehicles has been excluded from the report on the basis that it is not material to our carbon footprint Strategic report Financial statements Governance 53 As a locally based charity, staff from Kent Reliance are hugely FOCUSED ON OUR COMMUNITY aware of and are keen supporters of Demelza.
They have OSB has traditionally had very strong links with the participated in a number of fundraising events throughout the community in which it operates, through its building society year including headline sponsors and participants of the heritage, and this is continued through its Kent Reliance brand.
annual KM Dragon Boat Race, which helped raise more than 100,000 in sponsorship for local charities and good causes We have a well-established community services programme across the county.
The event continues to be one of the that does not simply take the form of donations and biggest charity fundraising events staged in Kent and the Kent fundraising, but also includes staff volunteering and Reliance teams raised the majority share of donations for involvement.
Demelza through their efforts on the day.
As one of the largest employers in the region, many of our Kent Reliance also take huge pride in Demelzas annual staff live in the local area they are a part of the local and fundraising event, Go Dotty which this year culminated in a regional community and therefore local causes and week long campaign involving office and branch staff who campaigns particularly resonate with our workforce.
Staff enthusiastically embraced the challenges set upon them feedback is crucial to informing where our support can be best which ranged from dotty based quizzes to bake-off placed within the community, from an in-office collection to challenges.
Aside from straightforward fundraising, we also our major charity partners.
engaged with the local community by gifting our branch network as collection and promotion outlets for the charity.
Our diverse community services programme includes being a Engagement with the charity doesnt end with our major sponsor of Demelza Hospice Care for Children, donating sponsorship.
We welcomed the opportunity to get actively to local Kent-based charitable causes through our Kent hands-on with Demelza, with many of our employees visiting Reliance Community Fund including sponsorship of Kent the Hospice on volunteer days to help clear and maintain the County Football Association Kent FA 23 County Cup gardens, build new outdoor activity centres for the children competitions and development centre and Kent County Cricket and assist with building maintenance.
Clubs KCCC sponsorship for the disability squads and adding its Academy Programme sponsorship in 2016.
Our Kent KENT COUNTY FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION Reliance Kent Heroes and Make Someones Christmas The partnership between the Kent FA and Kent Reliance has campaigns are undertaken with a local media partner.
We also grown over the last three years and now covers 23 Kent supported Kent Literacy which offers reading initiative in ten County Cup competitions and the Kent Girls and Disability Medway schools.
Player Development Centres: leading Kent Reliance to become Kent FAs first official Community Partner.
This is a great However, our charitable endeavours cannot simply take place enhancement to the successful partnership, and for grassroots on our front doorstep: we also support both national and football in Kent.
Through our savings arm of Kent Reliance we fundraise for Great Ormond Street Hospital through in-office and branch initiatives.
Overall the Bank has contributed through sponsorship and donations a total of over 200,000 to community and charitable causes in 2016.
Feedback from our 2016 Employee Engagement survey brought to our attention the desire of our employees to get involved in voluntary work in their communities and to assist them, we introduced a paid volunteering day a year.
DEMELZA HOSPICE CARE FOR CHILDREN Demelza Hospice Care for Children provides specialist care and support to babies, children, young people and their loved ones from diagnosis, day-to-day family life, times of crisis, end of life and through bereavement.
As a registered charity, Demelza offers bespoke support, free of charge, to families and are available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
In order to provide these vital services, they need to raise over 10m ayear.
54 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED Paul Dolan, Kent FAs Chief Executive is delighted to have the Great Ormond Street Hospitals mission is simple, as a charity continued backing from Kent Reliance: Throughout our their aim is to raise enough money to enable the hospital to relationship with Kent Reliance, they have shown how continue to provide the very best care for its young patients committed they are to the Kent grassroots football and their families as well as fund vital research.
Since 2011, we community and, through the support they give us, it seemed committed to donate a minimum of 25,000 a year to the like a natural fit for them to become our first ever Community hospital and we do that through our Peter Pan savings Partner.
To have Kent Reliance on board helps to ensure that accounts.
To date, we have donated in excess of 305,000 to we lead the way in creating competitions and opportunities the childrens hospital and in 2016 alone we gave in excess of that uphold the highest standards.
The Kent Reliance Girls and Disability Player Development KENT CHARITY AWARDS Centres provide excellent opportunities to deliver elite training The Kent Charity Awards KCA showcase the hard work that charities and voluntary groups from around the county and support to talented young football players in the county undertake to make the lives of others better.
Celebrating and while the 23 Kent Reliance County Cups have over 1,000 teams supporting the county at a grassroots level is key to Kent competing from across the county, catering for all standards Reliances charitable endeavours and our sponsorship of KCA and abilities.
The partnership will also see continued support reflects that.
and investment into grassroots football through the Kent Reliance Magic of the Cup competition.
Over 15 teams won KENT COUNTY CRICKET CLUB football equipment during the competition last season, and In 2016, Kent Reliance continued its partnership with KCCC, our overall winner, Mangravet FC from the Maidstone & District bysupporting the Clubs community programme.
As with Football League, was presented with 16 tickets by Kent ourcommitment to Kent FA, this relationship is another Reliance to see an England match at Wembley.
opportunity to really support grassroots activity within the county and encourage people of all abilities to get involved Barry W. Bright, Kent FAs Chairman and Managing Director and enjoy sport.
Our sponsorship activity provides for funding stated that: the partnership with Kent Reliance has enabled for the Disability Performance Squads who currently operate us to professionalise the service we provide.
Grassroots two teams: football provides so many opportunities and we are delighted The Kent Reliance Learning and Physically Disabled LDPD that Kent Reliance continues to help support the growing Performance Squad football talent in Kent communities.
The Kent Reliance Visually Impaired VI Performance Squad KENT HEROES Kent Heroes returned in 2016 in conjunction with KM Media Both squads train during the winter months and represent Group, led by KMFM, to give the Kent community the Kent in national competitions against other counties during opportunity to celebrate local, unsung heroes who may not the summer months.
This is the first step to representing the otherwise gain recognition for their selfless acts.
This national team managed by the England and Wales Cricket community initiative was powered by nominations from the Board.
The LDPD squad currently plays in two formats of public who were asked to nominate who they thought should cricket, both softball, and for the more experienced players, receive the awards.
This years categories were: full cricket balls hardball.
The VI team play with size three Unsung Hero footballs which have been adapted to contain beads which Teacher of the Year rattle, although the national team play with regular cricket Carer of the Year ball size hardball, again adapted to rattle and the squad trains Fundraiser of the Year throughout the year at a number of venues around the Young Person of the Year county.
Each award recipient was publicly recognised with an exclusive In 2016, Kent Reliance increased its commitment to KCCC by story in the Kent Messenger and a 500 cheque from Kent supporting its Academy Programme.
Jamie Clifford, CEO, KCCC: Reliance.
The campaign built upon the success of its inaugural We are very pleased with the achievements of the Academy edition last year and increased in popularity, with more since its inception in 2003 but with Kent Reliances support it is nominations and interest via social media that led to over hoped we can take the programme to another level.
Their 20,000 people having viewed the awards on video alone.
partnership will enable us to bring in more specialist coaches and further develop life skills to prepare scholars for a GREAT ORMOND STREET HOSPITAL professional career.
Our disability cricket programmes have As a business, we like to think of our staff as extended family also been boosted by the support of Kent Reliance which a clich, perhaps, but one that certainly rings true with Kent allows us to provide kit, coaching and facilities for our players.
It is perhaps because of this family-focused ethos The inclusion of Kent Spitfires player Amin Afshari in Englands that we naturally feel drawn to charities that support families Visually Impaired World Cup squad is evidence that the at their time of need.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 55 MAKE SOMEONES CHRISTMAS minutes of reading achieved and making the 11,000 children Make Someones Christmas encourages listeners and readers involved official members of the Millionaire Reading Club.
The of KMFM and KM Media Group respectively, to nominate those feedback from schools has been so positive that major plans they feel deserve something special during the festive season.
to expand the initiative are being drawn up, which Kent Following the big success of the programme in 2015, this Reliance aims to continue to support.
years edition was a hard task but we were not disappointed.
In 2016, we helped ten special people in Kent with ten bespoke The Strategic Report is approved by the Board and signed on prizes.
Nominations were varied and included a young family its behalf.
that had lost their dad just before Christmas, a seven and nine year old who had raised hundreds of pounds for charity by making cards and selling them and an elderly man who had JASON ELPHICK devoted his life to serving his local community.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 16 March 2017 KENT LITERACY In 2016, Kent Reliance also supported the educational charity to launch and develop its new home reading initiative Busters Book Club in ten Medway schools.
The scheme was extremely successful across the county with more than 2.8m Putting myself in the customers shoes.
Basic, traditional underwriting is pretty straightforward.
It focuses on whether the property is valued correctly and the borrower both, wants to, and has the means to, repay the loan.
But I think that there is a lot more to it than that.
I see underwriting as central to growing and developing OSB and how we approach underwriting is all about understanding customers and what both they and the Bank are trying toachieve.
I am lucky to have recruited great, experienced staff who care about the decisions they make.
They can read accounts, balance the risks and see a proposition from the Banks and the customers point of view.
Of course we have processes and systems but at the end of the day, decisions down to our peoples skill and expertise.
100% of cases are assessed by an underwriter.
They are here at OSB because they want to be responsible for making decisions, and not ticking boxes in an automated process.
I always stress that we should look to lend and be positive.
If a proposition doesnt fit then we can often help adapt it and make it work.
We try to be innovative across our Kent ITS ALL ABOUT BESPOKE Reliance, InterBay and Prestige brands to help customers.
UNDERWRITING One of our mantras that makes us stand out is being responsive, working with intermediaries and our sales team DAWN MIRFIN as a partnership.
Building long-term relationships means that GROUP HEAD OF UNDERWRITING I have to be able to put myself in the customers shoes and see through their eyes.
