Environmental matters, employees, social, community and human rights PayPoint is committed to dealing fairly and with a high level of integrity with all its stakeholders, including clients, retailers, merchants, consumers, local communities and shareholders.
We comply with statutory obligations in all areas and subject our practices to high levels of scrutiny.
We publish results twice each year and provide two interim management statements, complying with reporting and disclosure obligations.
This report sets out our approach and the way we measure our success in dealing with each group of stakeholders.
Clients and merchants Retailers and consumers Local communities Shareholders Over 1,500 clients Over 39,000 retailers in Where our employees live 594 shareholders at Information on including those via three countries and provide and work.
a service to millions of consumers.
Provision of To provide stable, reliable and Financial support to Maximise Impact convenient services a broad range of services to local charities.
help generate consumer footfall for retailers who serve their communities.
Provision of a high We seek to provide an PayPoint has a charity PayPoint focuses Engagement standard of service to unparalleled service to our committee made up of on maximising our clients and open retailers and consumers.
employee volunteers which economic value.
Client provides support, funded contracts contain service by the Company, to level agreements, which fundraising activities are set to a high standard.
carried out by its Specific performance employees for charities is measured for key which are important to elements, including system them.
These include local availability and file delivery.
charities in the communities in which its employees live and work.
The committee also organises events including PayPoints Got Talent, quiz nights, bake sales and fun runs in order to raise money for charitable causes.
Communication - major In the UK, terminal availability During the year, PayPoint Shareholders are invited How we clients have regular review is over 99% and when a donated 21,110 to over to attend the annual interact and meetings with dedicated terminal needs to be replaced, 30 local and national general meeting and support the sector managers.
it is achieved within four charities, which was major shareholders stakeholders hours across the UK in 98% supplemented by funds are visited twice a of cases.
The breadth of raised by employees year to discuss the products offered by themselves.
PayPoint is greater than any other network.
We offer our network to collect for certain charities An annual retailer survey is free of charge, including carried out to understand how the BBCs Children in we can improve our service.
We also invite retailers to attend an annual forum to discuss new products and 54% of PayPoints ATM obtain retailer feedback.
network is speechenabled, the largest proportion of an Major multiple retailers have independent network regular review meetings with in the UK.
20 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Environment GHG emissions PayPoints main impact on the environment stems from In this section we report on all required greenhouse our use of resources to run offices in the UK, Ireland, gas GHG emissions in accordance with the Companies Romania, Canada and France and our communications Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report with our retailers.
We measure our carbon footprint in accordance using the We report using a financial control approach to define our Green House Gas GHG protocol.
This allows us to monitor, organisational boundary.
A range of approaches can be by region, our carbon footprint and implement, where taken to determine the boundaries of an organisation for practical, targets to reduce our carbon footprint.
the purposes of GHG reporting including financial control, operational control or equity share.
The two primary sources of PayPoints carbon emissions are business travel and energy consumption.
We visit existing The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based and prospective retailers in the UK, Ireland and Romania.
upon the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including Routes are pre-planned to ensure efficiency where possible.
mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance Management regularly visits our businesses to review and June 2013 issued by DEFRA which make it clear that, in improve performance.
We aim to avoid unnecessary travel.
most cases, whether an operation is controlled by the Energy consumption arises from our offices in the UK, organisation or not does not vary based on whether the Romania and Canada.
We have a cycle to work scheme for financial control or operational control approach is used.
We encourage employees not to print The 2013 UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for unless necessary and our board papers are sent Company Reporting have been used to calculate our electronically rather than printed and sent by post.
emissions based on data gathered from each of our business units.
PayPoints services help consumers to reduce the number of unnecessary car journeys through the convenience of our Global GHG emissions data for the year is as follows: outlets which are usually available within a short walking distance.
Collect consolidated over 20 million parcels into Year ended Year ended Impact Units 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 1.7 million store visits in the last year, saving millions of van Scope 1 tonnes 346 382 deliveries to each consumers home address.
2 direct emissions from CO e We recycle wherever possible, including paper, cans, plastic fuel combustion cups, cardboard, toners and print cartridges.
We also Scope 2 tonnes 1,322 1,371 recycle computer equipment.
This has resulted in an 2 indirect emissions from CO e increase in the proportion of waste recycled to 58% of all purchased electricity, waste generated 2015: 55%.
Total waste has decreased in heat and cooling the year due to the decrease in employee numbers.
Scope 3 tonnes 764 929 2 business travel, CO e Year ended Year ended 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 waste and water tonnes tonnes Change % Total 2,432 2,682 Waste Intensity measurement: 3.4 3.7 Landfill 13.5 17.9 24.6 2 Total tonnes of CO e Recycled 18.6 21.8 14.7 1 per employee Total 32.1 39.7 19.1 1.
We have used the average number of employees to calculate our intensity measure as the % recycled 57.9% 55.0% 3.0 ppts majority of our emissions are directly related to business travel and energy consumption at our head office locations.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 21 Environmental matters, employees, social, community and human rights continued Human rights People development PayPoint supports fundamental human rights, such as the Performance and talent management processes are in place right to privacy, safety and to be treated fairly, with dignity to ensure a continued focus on high performance and people and respect.
Our employment standard sets out our development.
All employees formally discuss their commitment to good employment practices and the performance and development with their manager twice a principles to govern the practices adopted in each of our year and individual performance has a direct influence on pay businesses.
All employees have a right to safe conditions review and bonus outcomes.
We hold consistency meetings of work, consideration of their welfare, fair terms of to ensure that employees are rated fairly and that the overall employment, reward and treatment, clarity and openness spread of ratings reflects the performance of the Company.
Training is undertaken locally based on individual and business needs.
Managers attend a two day Management People Development Workshop to ensure that they develop the PayPoint employed, on average, 714 members of staff during skills that they need to manage their people effectively, and the period.
We aim to create a positive working environment in 2015 we developed and ran our first Foundation in that enables us to attract and retain a talented workforce.
Management programme for those identified as potential Employee turnover increased during the year as a result of people managers of the future.
50% of our annual training changes implemented to ensure that we have the shape and budget is reserved exclusively for IT training to ensure that size of organisation needed to deliver our future plans.
We our IT employees continue to develop the technical skills that expect turnover to reduce over the next year as these they need to develop and maintain PayPoints innovative changes are embedded.
Culture Diversity PayPoints culture of openness, honesty and accountability PayPoint values diversity and offers an environment where is an essential part of our success and we have recently all are treated equally and which is free from discrimination communicated a new set of values to reinforce the culture in respect of gender, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, and behaviours that we believe will enable us to continue to age or disability.
deliver innovative solutions and provide first class service to our customers.
We are actively engaging with our people to 42% of our employees are female and the representation on the bring the values to life in the work that we do.
Executive Board is 25% with two women on a board of eight members.
We were pleased to welcome our first female main Engagement board director, Gill Barr, in 2015.
PayPoint recognise that all of our employees play a part in delivering the groups performance.
We keep our people PayPoint is committed to treating applicants with disabilities informed of Company performance and new developments equally and supporting people who become disabled during via formal business update meetings, staff briefings, regular their career with the Company.
This includes making reasonable team meetings and Company newsletter.
All employees adjustments both to the recruitment process for applicants and are invited to participate in two meetings a year where the to the working environment for employees, in order that they directors present the performance of the group.
Overseas can achieve their full potential.
PayPoint invites all employees to complete an annual engagement survey in order to encourage two way communication and co-create action plans to enable the business to continually improve.
92% of employees participated in the survey in 2015 and our overall engagement score was 78%.
PayPoint operates a Share Incentive Plan to enable all UK employees to share in the success of the Company.
36% of employees actively participate in this plan.
22 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 UK Rest of the world PayPoint has the following policies in place: Year Year Year Year PayPoints employees ended ended ended ended equal opportunities - we treat job applicants, employees Numbers are average unless 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March and temporary staff equally, regardless of their sex, sexual otherwise stated 2016 2015 2016 2015 1 orientation, age, race, ethnic origin or disability.
It is also General the groups policy to retain employees who may become Number of staff 507 531 206 200 disabled while in service and provide appropriate training employed during the as necessary.
period whistle-blowing - we are committed to ensuring that Length of service 5 yrs 5 yrs 4 yrs 2 yrs malpractice is prevented and immediately dealt with, should Staff turnover 33% 22% 30% 16% it arise.
We encourage employees to raise their concerns during period about any malpractice promptly and we have an established Sickness absence rate 2.4% 1.8% 1.0% 2.2% procedure for raising any such concerns.
% working part-time 10% 9% 7% 4% health and safety - we recognise that effective health 1 Gender diversity and safety management is fundamental to running a Number of women 214 231 84 79 successful business.
We are committed to operating high employed standards, designed to minimise the risk of injuries and ill health to employees, contractors, visitors and others % of all employees 42% 43% 41% 39% who come into contact with the business, so far as is Number of men employed 293 300 122 121 reasonably practicable.
% of all employees 58% 57% 59% 61% disciplinary and grievance procedures - we provide a PayPoint plc directors: fair and consistent method of dealing with disciplinary Number of women 1 - - - problems and treat misconduct with appropriate action.
employed at 31 March We ensure that we treat any grievance an employee 2016 may have relating to their employment in a fair and % of PayPoint plc directors 10% 0% 0% 0% reasonable manner.
Number of men employed 7 10 - - bullying and harassment - we promote a working at 31 March 2016 environment free of harassment and individuals who believe % of PayPoint plc directors 90% 100% 0% 0% that they are being subjected to any form of harassment are encouraged to come forward to have the issue resolved.
2 Senior management Number of women 2 2 - - business ethics - we set out clear standards for ethical relationships and conduct to be maintained by employees employed and sub-contractors and conduct our business in % of senior management 26% 22% 0% 0% accordance with the highest ethical standards.
We do Number of men employed 6 7 - 1 not offer or accept any bribes.
% of senior management 74% 78% 0% 100% training and development - all employees meet twice a 1 Ethnic minorities year with their line manager to discuss performance and any % of all employees 29% 21% 13% 9% development needs.
Training is provided either in-house or % of management grades 24% 3% 7% 7% externally.
We also sponsor employees through further professional and technical qualifications.
We promote 1 Disabled employees internally, where appropriate.
Numbers based on employees employed at the end of each month.
Senior management includes the group executive, managing directors, the HR director and Head of Legal Company Secretary.
Rest of the world includes Ireland, Romania, Canada and France.
Approved by the board of directors and signed on behalf of the board.
Dominic Taylor Chief Executive 26 May 2016 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 23
