Culture and values continued During the year, the Group also published and updated its Policies and procedures Employee Code of Conduct handbook to promote ethical In June 2016, we introduced our first Paysafe Code for our behaviour in and out of the workplace, and to align with the staff, updating previous policies to reflect our new Group culture and values of Paysafe.
This code provided further clarification and guidance for all who work for the Group as well as Non-Executive Equality and diversity Directors, contractors, consultants, volunteers and sponsors.
The Group is committed to a policy of equal opportunity Training programmes were also run to help educate staff inmatters relating to employment, training and career about aspects of the Paysafe Code.
Supplementing the development of employees, and is opposed to any form Paysafe Code, a global policy framework was introduced, ofless favourable treatment based on age, disability, sex, supported by underlying procedures.
The Group also has marital status, sexual orientation, nationality, race or religion.
The split of staff by gender as at 31 December 2016 was as shown below.
At that date, Paysafe had 2,116 employees: Directors Number % Male Female Male Female Directors 7 100 Male Female Senior managers 79 37 68 32 All employees 1,227 889 58 42 100% 0% Were conscious that our split of staff by gender isnt where we would like it to be, especially at more senior levels.
5% ofour extended Executive Committee are female.
We have a number of initiatives underway in relation to gender equality, supporting our appointment of two new female Board members post year-end.
Were a bronze sponsor of the Women in Payments network and symposium in Canada and Post year end: Two female Non-Executive Directors appointed a number of our female employees are members of the W. net network which supports women in the US to grow and reach leadership positions in payments.
We encourage female Senior managers leaders as part of our leadership development programmes.
Overall, around 40% of participants on the management and leadership programmes across the Group are female.
Male Female The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for 68% 32% employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Appropriate arrangements are made for the continued employment and training, career development and promotion of disabled persons employed by the Group.
If members of staff become disabled, the Group aims to continue their employment, either in the same, or an alternative, position, with appropriate retraining being given ifnecessary.
Health and safety We are committed to protecting the health and safety of All employees ouremployees, as well as third parties who visit our sites.
Ourpolicy on health and safety is to provide adequate control ofthe risks arising from work activities in order to ensure that Paysafe is a safe and productive place to work.
Male Female Human rights issues 58% 42% The Group has an equal opportunities and a Code of Ethics policy that governs how all employees, officers, consultants, contractors, volunteers, interns, casual workers and agency workers are treated.
We remain mindful of the spirit of any regulation when conducting our business.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 44
