OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION The table below sets out our greenhouse gas GHG emissions Modern slavery for 2016 in tonnes of CO e as required by the Companies Act Paysafe is committed to ensuring that our business has no 2 2006, together with our intensity ratio.
involvement in modern slavery or human trafficking.
Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental human 16 Base year 2016 rights.
It takes various forms, such as slavery, servitude, forced 17 Scope 1 56 or compulsory labour and human trafficking, all of which 18 Scope 2 1,916 have in common the deprivation of a persons liberty by 19 another in order to exploit them for personal or commercial Scope 3 571 gain.
Paysafe will not support or deal with any business Total gross emissions CO e 2,543 2 knowingly involved in modern slavery or human trafficking.
20 Full-time employee equivalent FTE 2,116 Intensity measurement tonnes of CO e FTE 1.20 2 Details of the steps that we have taken during 2016 to prevent modern slavery and human trafficking occurring in our Paysafes procurement and facilities teams work closely business and supply chains are set out in our Modern Slavery withall service providers to reduce environmental impact Act Transparency Statement, which has been approved andensure that products purchased, such as chairs, bythe Board and is available on the Paysafe website.
desks, IThardware and tables, have lifecycle ratings, with officesmaximising their use of natural lighting and Trade organisations and industry collaboration  furniture.
The highest proportion of As a registered online payments service provider, facilitating purchases for electronics goods comes from well-established global payments for our merchants and customers, our global manufacturers that have high levels of rigour on business is built on trust.
Thats why we comply with the environmental standards.
As part of that compliance approach, the Paysafe Group is proud to be licensed, Additionally, 2016 saw a reduction in flight and global travel, accredited to, represented on, or belong to the numerous reducing our carbon footprint.
This was achieved via new regulatory and industry organisations at both a national Company policies, with investments in office-based video andinternational level.
These include the Financial Conduct conferencing technologies and with training, adopting a Authority, Financial Services Authority, Electronic Money technology-led approach to conduct our multi-territory Association, Emerging Payments Association, Electronic meetings with a business-as-usual approach.
We continue Retailing Association and its Industry Womens Council, the toencourage use of these solutions throughout 2017.
PCI Security Standards Council, the International Association of Money Transfer Networks and a number of other prepaid, The Groups Annual Report is printed on Magno and Essential clearing house, and cards and payment networks.
Senior Offset, which has been independently certified by the Forest executives are also regularly invited to speak at payment Stewardship Council and manufactured using materials from industry forums and events.
The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
We encourage our shareholders to opt-in for electronic Environment communications, to avoid unnecessary printing and Protecting the environment for future generations is distribution costs in particular for our Annual Report.
Any important to us all and at Paysafe we have put a number of shareholder wishing to help us in these efforts should visit our practices in place to help us minimise our carbon emissions, shareholder portal at www.
com including saving energy, recycling office waste and adopting where they can express their communication preferences.
Community While we are a low-impact company compared to many At Paysafe, we aim to be a supportive part of the local corporations due to the online nature of our services, we communities where we operate.
We support numerous arecommitted to minimising our environmental impact.
charities at both a local and national level, and conduct Weendeavour to do this in our offices by deploying charitable giving programmes where we match charitable high-efficiency servers and ensuring computer and electrical fundraising by individual employees.
During 2016, the Group equipment is switched off when not in use.
contributed $287,000 2015: $92,882 to directly support charitable causes.
The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report 18.
Scope 2 consists of electricity used in any facilities owned or controlled Regulations 2013 requires quoted companies to report on greenhouse gas bythe Company.
This data has been gathered from our energy suppliers.
GHG emissions for which they are responsible.
Scope 3 is an optional disclosure and we report in accordance with the GHG on23 December 2015.
Protocol Corporate Standard, and include electricity used at shared data 17.
Scope 1 data consists of fuel used to heat premises owned or controlled centres not directly owned, operated or controlled by Paysafe.
As the Company does not own vehicles, there are no figures for 20.
com 45 Culture and values continued PAYSAFE OFFICES SUPPORTING LOCAL ORGANISATIONS e e e e Los Angeles Gibraltar London Hyderabad and Sofia Dallas Cambridge Our Children Help for Foundation Heroes Montreal Vienna Irvine Macmillan and Medien und Cancer Families Gatineau Tokyo Generationen Forward Support Canadian Red Cross Specialisterne StandUp Great For Kids Ormond Montreal SOS Childrens Street Childrens Villages Hospital Hospital Doctors Without Isle of Man Calgary Bonneau365 Borders Manx Poppy Fund Miracles Miami myclimate Veterans Food Bank Kiva COURAGEOUS The Help for Heroes charity in the UK was one of many non-profit charity and community organisations supported by Paysafe during 2016.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 46 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Canada In June 2016 Paysafe donated $19,000 to the Canadian Red Cross to support relief efforts following the wildfires affecting Fort McMurray, Alberta and surrounding areas.
The Canadian Red Cross is a long-standing client and partner of Paysafe and we have been making donations to support their relief efforts since 2013.
Paysafe also donated more than $20,000 to the Montreal Childrens Hospital Foundation through various fund-raising activities during 2016 and the Montreal team supported the Bonneau365 homeless charity with a funds-matching initiative involving staff and management, along with gifts of 75 food boxes.
Our Calgary office continued its support for both the Calgary PIONEERING Poppy Fund and Veterans Food Bank with citizen-in-theOur Irvine-based team volunteered at the community support initiatives including donating food, gifts Orange County Food Bank, which works and cash.
They also supported Kiva, an international with nearly 400 local charities, soup kitchens non-profit organisation with a mission to connect people and community organisations to end through lending to alleviate poverty.
United States In 2016, employees in Irvine, California, continued their $287,000 support of the Families Forward initiative which helps local DONATED TO DIRECTLY SUPPORT families in crisis in Orange County with services that include CHARITABLE CAUSES IN FY 2016 career coaching, life skills education and food assistance.
Meals were also donated to the organisation StandUp For Kids which helps homeless children to stabilise and improve their lives and Paysafe staff volunteered at the Orange County tablets, the internet or any other type of digital media.
paysafecard also partners with the socially innovative enterprise Specialisterne, which helps people with autistic United Kingdom and Isle of Man traits enter the workplace.
paysafecard also supports Doctors In the UK, Paysafe supports Help for Heroes, a charity which Without Borders, the Make a Wish foundation and myclimate, works to deliver an enduring network for wounded, injured a Swiss non-profit organisation focused on effective climate and sick service personnel, veterans and their loved ones.
Vienna staff also initiated a donation programme Over the year we helped to raise more than $100,000 for the for Die Gruft a homeless shelter in Vienna andthe Santa charity.
Anna Childrens Hospital to support children suffering Our offices in Cambridge and the Isle of Man supported food fromcancer.
bank collections, with staff volunteering support for Great Our Paysafe colleagues in Austria working for payolution Ormond Street Hospital and the Macmillan Cancer Support, supported SOS Childrens Villages, which helps protect and as well as assistance for young athletes with opportunities care for children who have lost parental care or risk losing it.
The Group also As well as donating 6,000 to the organisation during 2016, contributed 10,000 to Manx Miracles, providers of a anart competition involving children supported by the state-of-the-art sensory facility for children on the Isle of Man.
charity resulted in a childs winning design being used for Europe payolutions Christmas cards to its partners and suppliers.
In November 2016, following an earthquake in Italy, Paysafe The payolution team also lent their support to TechBikers and donated $10,000 to the Italian Red Cross to help in the search World Bicycle Relief.
For the latter, ten bicycles were donated and rescue efforts and emotional support for victims of the to the non-profit organisation, which mobilises people disaster.
through the power of bicycles.
paysafecard in Austria continued to support an Austrian In Bulgaria, where Paysafe has several hundred employees social start-up Medien und Generationen Media & working in its offices in Sofia, the Group donated more than Generations, which aims to help senior citizens enter the $5,500 to the Our Children Foundation, a non-government digital world with guidance on dealing with smartphones, organisation which focuses on protecting childrens rights.
