20 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Our strategy in action SUSTAINABILITY PLAN 2020 Sustainability Sustainability is critical to achieving our mission to help people make progress in their lives through learning.
It is also critical to our long-term competitiveness.
Being ethical and embracing sustainability is fundamental to our commercial success.
In turn, a stronger and more sustainable Pearson will allow us to help people progress.
Strategy in action: Reach more learners Every Child Learning Every Child Learning is a partnership between Pearson and Save the Children to research and develop solutions for delivering education in emergencies.
Starting with Syrian refugees and vulnerable children in Jordan, the ambition is to adapt, scale and use these solutions to deliver e ective education in other emergency situations.
We are also working to raise awareness of the urgency around improving education for children a ected by con ict.
500,000 1 million donated to fund two invested by Pearson in educational centres research and product in Amman, Jordan development Ethnography and local research phase completed 2m: Pearson helped raise for Save the Childrens work through The Sunday Times Christmas Appeals in 2015 and 2016 Image: Children play at the Save the Children Rainbow Kindergarten.
Photography: Hannah Maule-F nch Save the Children.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 21 Sustainability plan Building a sustainable business is critical to achieving our mission and ensuring our long-term competitiveness.
Our customers, employees, partners and learners expect us to uphold the highest business standards, to continuously enhance the quality of our products, and to contribute to their communities.
To help achieve this, we have three sustainability pillars: 12 3 4 5 Be a trusted Reach more Shape the future 1 partner 23 learners of education Strategic intent Strategic intent Strategic intent Operate responsibly, ethically Innovate to improve access to Measurably improve learning outcomes and transparently quality education Foster 21st Century skills and Treat learners, customers and partners Enhance a ordability and accessibility competencies with integrity and honesty of our o erings Contribute to research and knowledge Respect and progress our employees Collaborate to improve access to Engage with others to promote quality education Contribute to our communities quality education Consult our stakeholders Progressively improve environmental stewardship Our plan aligns with the United Nations 10 Reduced 4 Quality 8 Decent work and Sustainable Development Goals SDGs education inequalities economic growth creating better outcomes for customers and society, and stronger financial returns for shareholders.
Sustainability plan Our material issues As some material issues are business opportunities, not all 19 are included in Last year we adopted our new sustainability Based on an analysis of the areas of most the alignment mapping.
plan our five-year vision to create value concern to our external stakeholders for our customers, shareholders and and a review of our company policies, Our approach to these issues will also society.
The sustainability plan is built activities and priorities, we identi ed be described in more detail when we around three pillars, shown above, and is 19 issues that are most relevant to the publish our Sustainability Report.
aligned to the United Nations SDGs.
Through Sustainability governance further consultation with senior leaders at We are working to integrate the Pearson, we narrowed these down to nine The reputation & responsibility committee, sustainability plan into our commercial issues we believe are most material at this a formal committee of the board, provides strategy.
This provides a foundation for time.
We consulted with external experts ongoing oversight, scrutiny and challenge continuing to build sustainability into to con rm our prioritisation.
on matters relating to our sustainability Pearsons business functions.
strategy and our corporate reputation.
These issues, which represent a mix of both We will again disclose a detailed review Learn more on p78.
opportunities for growth as well as risks to of our 2016 performance when we publish revenue, are shown on the matrix on p22, The Pearson executive drives our sustainability report later this year.
plotting stakeholder concern and business implementation of business strategy, impact.
We have mapped all 19 issues that In the rest of this section, we will report on including responding to our sustainability are the focus of our sustainability plan our material issues, how those issues relate issues.
The responsible business leadership against the risks being monitored through to our Group risk management process at council oversees the development of the our enterprise risk management process.
Pearson, sustainability governance, aspects strategy on behalf of the board.
It is chaired You can read more about our risk of the three pillars and our performance in by our chief corporate a airs and global management process and details of sustainability rankings.
marketing o cer and comprises senior principal risks on p44-55.
leaders from across the business.
22 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Our strategy in action: sustainability Our material issues Materiality matrix Learner Economic Data privacy expectations empowerment The following matrix shows how we and security Academic quality Competitiveness mapped our 19 issues, and highlights of digital products the nine that we have deemed to be the Summative testing Progression most material for the purpose of our sustainability strategy.
21st Century skills We will evaluate, re ne and talk with Accessibility stakeholders about our material issues Security, health on an ongoing basis, in the spirit of and safety Girls and womens continuous iteration and improvement.
A ordability Literacy empowerment and equality Corporate Climate change governance education Lobbying and public policy Key to material issues GHG emissions and climate change Digital infrastructure Nine material issues in our sustainability plan and reporting Disruptive Corporate functions distribution models Societal issues Education industry Environmental issues Degree of control LOW HIGH High Medium Low Business impact Alignment of material issues to principal and other Pearson risks Sustainability report 2015 Annual report 2016 Material issues Principal risk Group risk Business area risk monitoring Disruptive distribution models YES Global Product North America 2 Core Social, Environmental Competitiveness of digital products 2 Growth and Ethical SEE A ordability 2 Learner expectations 2 Academic quality 2 Assessment Core Summative testing 5 YES Core North America Lobbying and public policy YES 4 Growth Assessment YES Core Assessment Legal Data privacy and security 12 Growth Global Product Tech & Ops North America North America Global Product Tech & Ops Digital infrastructure YES 8 Core HR Assessment Security, health and safety YES 6 Growth SEE Assessment Legal SEE Accessibility SEE GHG emissions and climate change See Principal risks and As part of our risk management process, Group risks are tracked across all business areas, geographies and functions.
uncertainties, p47 Emerging risk LOW Stakeholder concern HIGH Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 23 Provide opportunities for Pearson people designed for employees to take charge of to be good citizens and to get involved in their career growth through learning.
Be a trusted their local communities and to contribute This complements Milo, our global platform 1 partner to social impact causes for learning and development, which saw employees complete over 160,000 courses Deliver against our targets to make more Value our customers and partners in 2016 e cient use of resources and on our Pearson has a set of commitments across response to climate change.
Encourage and reward high performance, a range of social, community and human nurturing talent and creating a culture Pearson has in place policies to support rights principles that fide fines responsible where all are able to realise their recognised human rights principles.
These business for us: individual potential include safeguarding, non-discrimination Ensure that our products and services and health and safety.
As a founder Provide a safe and healthy work are inclusive, appropriate in content to signatory to the UN Global Compact, we environment for our employees and the the age, location and ability of the learner have also made a series of commitments to learners we serve.
In 2016, Pearson secured and are easy and safe to use and access the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the RoSPA Silver Award for our health and the International Labour Organization safety performance.
See the Principal risks Respect and protect how we use and declaration on the fundamental principles and uncertainties section on p47-55 for share data entrusted to us by learners and rights at work, the Rio Declaration on more detail on how we manage this issue and our customers.
More information on Environment and Development and to our approach to data privacy and security Help our employees understand how we re ect a zero tolerance approach to bribery can be found in the Principal risks and are performing as a company, including and corruption.
uncertainties section p47-55 how global and sector trends might a ect Our primary responsibility to learners is them.
During 2016, we undertook our Extend our commitments on labour through the products and services we sell restructuring plan which reduced the total standards, human rights and environmental and how we extend our reach.
Our work Pearson employee base by around 10%.
responsibility to include our suppliers, on improving learning outcomes p18-19 We provided comprehensive information franchisees and other business partners.
describes the progress we have made.
on the trends behind that decision, regular This includes a concern across the value communication with comprehensive detail chain for ensuring our activities are free Respect our employees and help on process for a ected teams, consultation from slavery, servitude, forced or them to progress and support for colleagues leaving compulsory labour and human tra cking.
Our commitments to our people as A statement on the steps taken by Pearson a responsible employer are to: to combat modern slavery was approved This year has seen Pearson manage by the board and can be viewed on the considerable amounts of change.
Through Inform, support and equip colleagues Pearson website www.
com this, weve increased our investment in to work collaboratively.
As part of our new platforms and digital products, and commitment to internal learning and continued to simplify the way we work.
development, we have launched Pearson U, Employee engagement survey Our 2016 engagement survey Actions con rmed that our employees: Our employees called for Pearson response More opportunities within We have launched Pearson U, bringing together people, Share a strong belief in our mission Pearson to learn new skills programmes and activities to help employees grow their and purpose, and feel proud of what and to develop careers careers with additional focused learning opportunities we do.
Theyre committed to improving to come in 2017 learning outcomes Value Pearsons commitment to diversity More clarity on Pearsons We have set our strategy as being to combine world class and social impact, and feel supported by overall strategy capabilities in content and assessment with technology the company on these issues and services, to enable more e ective teaching and Respect their colleagues and feel supported personalised learning at scale by their managers.
A greater focus on workload We committed to employees to focus on doing fewer things, better Our leaders to do a better job of We will more closely align performance goals of senior communicating simply, openly leaders to ensure there is transparency and accountability and working together better for all to drive success for the company 24 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Our strategy in action: sustainability In this period of change, employee We operate a free, independent, con dential Highlights of our activity include: engagement remains a priority.
telephone helpline and website available Launch of a new global diversity to anyone who wants to raise a concern.
Our values are underpinned by the & inclusion D&I team We have a clear non-retaliation policy in Pearson Code of Conduct which sets out place to encourage people to share the Involved over 4,000 employees in seven the legal, ethical, social and environmental issues they have and we ask about how global employee resource networks.
standards of behaviour we expect from comfortable people are in raising concerns The seven networks are for women, our employees.
in our annual employee engagement survey.
parents, veterans, Latinos, the LGBT We make sure everyone is aware of the community, people with disabilities In 2016, we had 107 concerns 119 in 2015.
Code and to con rm they have read it, and employees of black and or African These were investigated and where understood it and to a rm they will comply ancestry along with their allies possible, the outcome shared with the with it.
The Code was last circulated in April reporter.
As with previous years, the Over 1,200 people completed D&I related 2015 and it is a mandatory part of our majority of the concerns related to HR training courses on topics such as onboarding process for all new Pearson practices.
Material concerns are reported unconscious bias, gender intelligence employees to similarly certify to abide by to the Pearson audit committee.
and harassment prevention the Code.
During 2016, we introduced a new Code of Conduct e-learning course which For a fourth year, achieved a perfect score Respect and progress our employees: was the centrepiece of a month-long focus of 100% in the 2016 Corporate Equality Diversity, equality and inclusion on the Code of Conduct.
The Code was Index run by LGBT advocacy group, At Pearson, we value the power of refreshed in 2016 as part of a regular the Human Rights Campaign di erence.
The unique skills, perspectives annual review and will again be circulated to We work to ensure that appropriate and backgrounds of each employee are every Pearson employee in 2017.
We have procedures, training and support are integral to our success, helping us be more maintained our aim for 99% of employees in place for people with disabilities to innovative and to create e ective solutions to sign up to the Code.
ensure fair access to career progression for learners around the world.
Our aim Many of the areas covered by the Code of opportunities.
One of our seven employee is to foster a work environment that is Conduct are supported by detailed policies resource groups is Pearson Able its remit inclusive, diverse, and where people can and procedures.
For example, anti-bribery is to improve company practice for learners be themselves.
and corruption, health and safety, and and employees.
Learn more about these Work in an environment in our section on Principal risks and that values diversity 76% 79% uncertainties p47-55.
Values Our values continue to be embedded into performance management, which means all employees are assessed and rewarded for acting consistently with them.
They are also the foundation for our leadership learning programmes.
Values Behaviour Brave Shows determination and courage in the face of obstacles and setbacks O ers ideas or opinions without fear of criticism or professional risk Takes bold and decisive action to deliver Sets high standards for own and others performance ambitious outcomes, and champions a culture of high performance Imaginative Assesses complex issues from multiple angles and addresses problems that dont have clear solutions or outcomes Looks beyond their immediate job O ers creative ideas and innovative solutions to solve problems and both inside and outside of Pearson address opportunities and introduces new ways of seeing, Takes a broad perspective, to identify opportunities and solutions thinking and working Decent Is honest, transparent and straightforward when working with others Builds trusting relationships with a broad range of people inside and outside Listens, encourages and respects Pearson di erence: treats all people fairly, Looks for and includes diverse viewpoints and talents of others with honesty and transparency Accountable Takes ownership of own work, and drives to successful completion and closure Identi es and involves others to accomplish individual and Group outcomes Drives results by owning the solution, Follows through on commitments getting the right people involved and delivering on promises Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 25 Progressively improve During 2016, Pearson was again recerti ed We will publish full details of our environmental stewardship against the Carbon Trust Standard for our environmental performance including other global operations.
We were the second important emissions such as water use and Climate change remains a focus for us ever organisation to secure the standard embedded carbon dioxide in purchased raw as one of the most serious issues facing which recognises leadership in measuring, materials in our 2016 environment report.
the planet, and GHG emissions is one of managing and reducing year-on-year our material issues.
Minimising our Actively contribute to the communities carbon emissions.
We also continue to environmental impact is not just the right where we work be certi ed against ISO 14001, the thing to do: it helps deliver cost savings.
environmental management standard In 2016, our investment in social impact was in the UK and Australia.
We maintained our climate neutral status 6.8m or 1.2% of pre-tax pro ts.
for our directly controlled operations Paper use in textbooks remains an The Pearson approach to social impact is a commitment first introduced in 2009. important environmental issue for us.
to invest in a small number of social impact We focus on sustainability of supply, being Our strategy focuses on: campaigns as well as to help our employees e cient in how we use paper and on to get involved in local communities and to Reduction: We achieved a 40% reduction promoting responsible forest management.
in operational emissions as at the end of Our paper use management includes: 2016 compared with a 2009 base year Our award-winning agship campaign is Project Literacy.
Founded and convened by A policy on environmental sourcing of paper Renewables: We maintained our record of Pearson, the global campaign brings purchasing 100% of the electricity we use Discussing our approach with suppliers, together not for pro ts and companies with from renewable sources and generate our customers, environmental groups a shared aim of bringing the power of words own renewable electricity at six of our sites and investors to the world, by building partnerships and O set: Since 2009, we have now protected driving action.
Pearson is also working with Active membership of industry bodies over 1,450 hectares of forest.
One of the Americas Promise Alliance to increase dedicated to responsible forest our o set providers the Woodland the number of students who graduate management Trust has provided o sets equivalent from high school in the United States.
to those generated by the printing of this Holding Forest Stewardship Council FSC Our people are our best ambassadors and annual report.
chain of custody in the UK, as does LSC advocates.
We support them to give time Communications, our outsource partner and money to invest in communities where in North America, allowing books in those they work as well as in social impact causes markets to carry the FSC label.
P P Key performance indicators Key performance indicators Gender diversity GHG emissions Women in Pearson % Metric tonnes of CO e 2 Emissions from 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 No.
Methodology We have reported on all of Combustion of fuel Board of the emission sources required under the and operation of Directors 30% 33% 30% 3 Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and facilities Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These Senior GHG Protocol Scope 1 25,027 22,343 19,093 sources fall within our consolidated financial leadership 35% 34% 32% 38 statement.
We do not have responsibility for Electricity, heat, steam any emission sources that are not included in All employees 58% 59% 60% 21,420 and cooling purchased our consolidated statement.
The method we Two reporting lines from the chief executive for own use have used to calculate GHG emissions is the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and GHG Protocol Scope 2 104,715 88,831 77,579 Reporting Standard revised edition, using 30% of our board members are female, a higher Emissions relating the location-based scope 2 calculation percentage than the 25% target set by Lord Davies to air and rail travel, method, together with the latest emission in 2015.
We are a founder member of the 30% Club electricity factors from recognised public sources and also participate in its cross-company mentoring including, but not limited to, Defra, the programme which helps the development of talented transmission, waste International Energy Agency, the US Energy mid-career women.
Women in Learning and and water GHG Information Administration, the US Leadership Will is our largest global employee Protocol scope 3 32,668 35,644 29,714 Environmental Protection Agency and the resource network.
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
Total 162,410 146,368 126,385 The data in the tables has been independently veri ed by Corporate Citizenship.
Intensity ratios 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 and 2 sales revenue 26.6 24.8 21.2 Scope 1 and 2 FTE 3.17 2.7 2.95 26 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Our strategy in action: sustainability Mapped the investment needs to integrate accessibility standards into existing Reach more products while committing to apply those 2 learners into new product development Launched the Tomorrows Markets Objectives Incubator, a 1m initiative to help Pearson We have a long-term growth objective to bring new products and services to In schools in England, we are leading reach 200 million learners annually by low-income learners in an a ordable a programme funded by the UK 2025 outlined on p18.
and accessible way Government that helps teachers to deliver e ective teaching and learning Achieving this will require innovation in Worked to expand access to quality about development and global issues.
all aspects of our business.
For example, education for girls and women.
We continue Targeting children aged 8 to 14, the we have: to partner with international nonGLP o ers resources and guidance for governmental organisation NGO Camfed, Adopted the Pearson product lifecycle teachers aimed at helping children to in a project funded by the UK Department of a consistent approach and set of tools to understand their place in the world International Development and supported by help product development teams focus on and to develop an ethos encouraging relevant national Ministries of Education, to the needs of the learner and on improving empathy, fairness and respect.
transform educational opportunities for girls learner outcomes from low-income communities in Zimbabwe Continued to invest in innovative education and Tanzania.
The Camfed Learner Guide start-ups through the Pearson A ordable programme, developed in partnership with Learning Fund: the fund targets students Pearson, trains young women graduates to from low-income families and has return to their local schools to deliver vital investments in South Africa, Nigeria, life skills lessons to marginalised children.
Ghana, India and the Philippines To complement this, Pearson is now awarding BTEC vocational quali cations for Camfeds Learner Guide alumnae.
Project Literacy the Unreasonable Group and the United the UNESCO to join a 30-member committee Project Literacy is Pearsons agship Nations Educational, Scienti c and Cultural the Global Alliance for Literacy to advise the social impact campaign and organization UNESCO.
UN on its implementation strategy on literacy supports all three of the companys within the Sustainable Development Goals Together, we are working to: raise awareness framework.
sustainability pillars be a trusted and mobilise action: advance best practice: and innovate for new solutions to In addition to in uencing policy, Project partner, reach more learners, and combat illiteracy.
Literacy is also helping enrich the body of shape the future of education.
knowledge through targeted research and Reaching more learners Project Literacy has one overarching ambition: sector analyses with partners like UNESCO to make signi cant and sustainable advances Since we launched the campaign in early 2015, and Results for Development to help advance in the ght against illiteracy by 2030 so that all we have facilitated more than 15,000 volunteer global best practices.
people regardless of geography, language, referrals to partner organisations, and race, class or gender have the opportunity contributed $8.7 million in funding for to ful l their potential through the power solutions, with a primary focus on the US, UK, C D of words.
Overall, through our current A partners and programming, an estimated E B Being a trusted partner 700,000 adults, parents and children will Partnerships are essential to achieving the bene t from Pearsons support.
Campaign highlights 2015 & 2016 campaigns ambition to close the global Shaping the future of education literacy gap.
Through Project Literacy, we have $8.7million 700,000 demonstrated Pearsons capacity to convene As a cross-sector movement representing in funding for bene ciaries partners across business, civil society and diverse communities and interests around the solutions adults, parents & children government and from sectors that we may world, Project Literacy has an opportunity to think have little in common with each other, use the power of its collective voice to push for from economists to healthcare practitioners to change at the local, national and multi-national 5 prestigious awards gender activists to teachers.
We have teamed levels whether its through organised including Cannes Lion Grand Prix up with more than 90 partners to date petitions or by participating in forums and partners as diverse as Room to Read, Doctors advisory bodies to in uence policy.
Pearson, of the World, The Hunger Project, Microsoft, on behalf of Project Literacy, was invited by Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 27 Our employability initiatives aim to equip learners with the 21st Century skills they 12 3 4 5 Shape the future Our performance need to obtain decent work and build their 3 of education sustainability rankings careers.
In addition to core academic competencies, we help learners develop and One way we assess how we are doing as Objectives demonstrate relevant vocational skills by a sustainable business is to maintain our o ering industry-recognised certi cations position in key indices and benchmarks We are constantly working to develop and developing training programmes with of social responsibility.
better, more e ective approaches to partner organisations like Cisco, Adobe learning and we actively engage with and Microsoft.
diverse stakeholders to share our insights 2016 Silver Class and learn from others.
Our work in these Our e orts to foster cross-sector 2015 Bronze Class areas focuses on: improving learning collaboration include: outcomes, fostering 21st Century skills 2014 Bronze Class Helping to strengthen education systems and competencies, contributing to research 2013 Silver Class through leadership roles and active and knowledge and promoting collective 2012 Gold Class engagement with the Global Partnership for action on global education and Education and the World Economic Forum development challenges.
Advancing the role of the private sector in 2016 94% We are committed to researching, global education and development through measuring and reporting on the e cacy 2015 95% the Global Business Coalition for Education of our products and services to ensure that 2014 Platinum and Business Fights Poverty they are helping to achieve and improve 2013 Platinum learning outcomes see p18-19 for more.
Promoting and accelerating the UN 2012 Platinum Sustainable Development Goals agenda with the Business and Sustainable 2016 was the final year of the CR Index retained Development Commission.
2016 Yes 2015 Yes 2014 Yes Tomorrows Markets Incubator 2013 Yes 2012 Yes Last year, we launched the Tomorrows The response from employees exceeded Markets Incubator.
Starting with a 1m expectations and the incubator is currently Yes signi es inclusion in FTSE4Good investment, the incubator is designed to help supporting 17 teams globally to explore their Pearson employees bring new product ideas ideas further.
These ideas are digital and Worlds 100 2016 Yes to market, which have the potential to blended solutions and the diverse focus areas Most Sustainable 2015 Yes pro tably serve learners in low-income or include programmes to help prison inmates Companies underserved communities a t scale.
The in the US gain jobs upon release, language 2014 Yes incubator supports employees in developing learning for refugees, and improving the and testing their business models, while also mathematics skills of low-income students helping them build and widen their own in South Africa.
17 teams funded by the Tomorrows Markets Incubator to explore their ideas further
