| STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE OUR PEOPLE HEALTH AND SAFETY Across Pennon the most important We strive for the highest standards of health and safety in the element for the delivery of our strategic workplace so as to minimise accidents, incidents and lost time.
Both the water and wastewater businesses and the waste objectives is our people.
It is our goal to recycling and recovery business are working hard to embed health and safety within the culture of the organisation, reduce attract, nurture and retain a dedicated, risk and achieve zero incidents across the Group.
At South West Water, performance in respect of RIDDOR-reportable injuries was maintained at the same PENNONS WORKPLACE STRATEGY level during the calendar year 2015 as in 2014, with a total Pennon relies on the talent and professionalism of its employees of seven reportable injuries an incidence rate of 520 per and is committed to their health, safety and wellbeing, which it 100,000 employees, none of which involved a serious injury sees as investment in the Groups long-term human capital and 2014 7 incidents: 552 per 100,000 employees.
Bournemouth directly related to shareholder value.
We aim to develop and Water had one RIDDOR-reportable injury a rate of 490 per motivate employees, treat them fairly and ensure they are fully 100,000 employees.
engaged in all aspects of the Groups objectives.
Through this During the same period Viridor experienced 47 RIDDORs of approach, we seek to maintain a pipeline of talent that is well which 34 involved employees an incidence rate of 1,063 per placed to lead and serve our businesses as they grow and adapt.
In addition, there were nine incidents involving We are committed to employee engagement, training and agency colleagues, three involving contractors and one involving development, and equality and diversity, and provide ongoing a member of the public.
Disappointingly, this was an increase support through a range of workplace policies.
These cover areas from 30 incidents the previous year 28 employees and two such as health and safety, equal opportunities, human rights, agency workers and the 2014 incidence rate of 889 per ethics, employee relations and family-friendly policies such as 100,000 employees.
flexible working and parental leave, and schemes designed to Viridor has committed to delivering a new Safety, Health, promote the health and wellbeing of employees.
Environment, Quality and Sustainability SHEQS strategy centred on the vision of no harm to people and environment.
Building on our world-class safety record within our ERF and capital investment programme, we have adopted a beyond a million approach with employees and contracting partners, which targets over a million safe working hours on each project.
During 2015 16 this was exemplified at the Glasgow Recycling and Renewable Energy Centre, which achieved the milestone one million safe hours worked with no RIDDORs during construction.
Following a major review of its operational sites during 2014 15, South West Water undertook a number of activities in 2015 16 to further reduce health and safety risks.
This included the roll-out of a Dynamic Risk Assessment training package, designed to help front-line operational personnel undertake advanced risk assessment.
South West Water made progress with its Lone Worker project to further safeguard staff working alone.
This has seen the introduction of wearable hardware known as TWIG, which can monitor body movement and raise alerts if patterns of movement synonymous with injury, trips or falls are detected.
We explored the use of remote technologies including aerial drones to provide improved risk assessment and physiotherapy to provide employees with timely treatment, reduce the risk of longer-term injury and thereby minimise lost working time due 1 RIDDOR INCIDENTS to absence.
Health, safety and wellbeing also continued to be promoted through a variety of internal campaigns including TAP 2 Think, Act, Prevent and Hang on a Sec which was focused on 2011 59 raising awareness within wastewater operations.
2012 52 2013 40 1 Incidents involving employees under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and 2014 35 Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2 Since 2012 reportable incidents have been reported on seven days absence: in 3 2015 42 previous years they were reported on three days absence 3 Bournemouth Water incidents included for 2015 only.
48 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bournemouth Waters strong safety record is underpinned by a comprehensive programme of training, audit and inspection.
Senior managers are required to accompany compliance personnel in conducting regular audits to ensure that they are familiar with the requirements, can interrogate processes and bring fresh perspectives to bear.
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT South West Waters People Strategy continues to foster a The two-stage development starts by providing a thorough culture of support and motivation for staff.
Various programmes understanding of Viridors operations and services, framed within are in place to encourage career development, and we continue the wider context of the recycling and waste industry.
This sees to review and expand these to ensure we have the right balance candidates participating in a rotating programme around core of skills for the years ahead.
In 2015 16 South West Waters employee development The second year involves an extended, and possibly permanent, programme included: placement with clear objectives backed up with regular reviews.
continuing with the programme of skills-based training for In 2015 we recruited three graduates onto Viridors training operational staff started in 2014 15 scheme and of the 12 past attendees of the scheme, currently 10 supporting over 120 first-line, middle and senior managers are in permanent positions across the business.
through three tiers of management development programmes Managing for Success M4S, STEP and LEAD APPRENTICESHIPS Apprenticeships provide a legacy for the skills and knowledge that continuing to grow and expand our award-winning are integral to the Groups core businesses.
apprenticeship programme 85 apprentices have been recruited to the apprenticeship programme since it started in 2011.
In 2015 16 the water business recruited 24 new apprentices, which brings the current total to 89 apprentices recruited Bournemouth Water has retained the Gold standard of the since 2011, including four at Bournemouth Water.
South West Investors in People accreditation and South West Water has Water received a number of accolades during the year including retained its Silver status.
Large Employer of the Year South West at the National Viridor believes strongly in helping all colleagues to reach their full Apprenticeship Awards and the retention of our Top 100 potential and has structured training programmes to develop and Apprenticeship Employer status.
nurture employees at all levels of the business.
Viridor offers a wide range of apprenticeship programmes in As well as its range of employment benefits, Viridor offers popular different areas of its business, from Engineering Technician to training opportunities for employees who wish to progress within Business Administration Assistant.
Last year, colleagues across the waste business were Over 23 apprenticeships are currently registered across our provided with over 6,500 training days.
Viridors pioneering waste management business.
All employees are offered a wide management degree programme, developed in partnership with range of training and career progression opportunities.
Edge Hill University, will give its future leaders the skills necessary to build on their existing knowledge and expertise.
So far 40 Viridor is currently working alongside Energy & Utility Skills and supervisors and managers have completed the degree, which was other organisations in its industry and beyond to develop and launched in 2012 and seeks to bridge the gap between technical deliver a series of trailblazing apprenticeships in waste recycling expertise and managerial knowledge.
The latest round of students and recovery.
began their studies in April 2015 with a further 30 currently on the programme and due to graduate in 2017.
In addition, Viridor has a graduate management training scheme that aims to develop the next generation of managers and technical experts to support the changing nature of its business.
This programme is open to internal and external applicants with a degree or equivalent qualification.
co. uk 2016 49 | STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED CONSULTATION AND SUPPORT EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT At South West Water, director-led briefing sessions and a formal Engaged staff are critical to our success.
Employees who are more consultation regarding the integration of Bournemouth Water engaged feel safer and are involved in fewer accidents at work, commenced in January 2016.
A comprehensive employee support take fewer days off sick and receive more positive feedback from programme was made available for those affected.
Put simply, working to improve engagement is a key part of working to improve overall performance and sustainability.
In February 2015 Viridor announced a new operating model to meet the needs of current and future market conditions, and to South West Water, Bournemouth Water and Viridor undertake provide a platform for growth in line with its business strategy.
employee surveys at regular intervals.
The plans, which were subject to consultation with affected Viridors most recent survey, which utilised the Gallup Q12 employees, include proposals to close a small number of sites methodology, showed an impressive 77% response rate, up and merge the companys South West and South East operating from 39% in 2014 15.
We also saw an increase in the overall regions.
Affected employees were offered full support and, where engagement score with nearly one-third of employees ranking as appropriate, assistance with finding alternative opportunities actively engaged in our purpose and values, well above the UK outside the Group.
Resultant areas of focus for 2016 17 include management development, more emphasis on recognising WORKPLACE DIVERSITY and rewarding effort and a more structured approach to We are committed to providing equal opportunities and performance management and career progression.
improving diversity within our workforce.
South West Waters 2015 employee survey, which was carried Viridor has established a new Diversity in Action group out by Ixia, also showed a 77% response rate, up 4% on the whose specific aim is to promote and encourage a culture of prior year.
The Engagement Index remained at 74% against inclusion where all colleagues are treated fairly and are given Ixias benchmark of 70%, with areas of focus including more every opportunity to learn, grow and excel in their careers with communication on company changes, more recognition of effort us.
The groups initial focus is on improving gender diversity.
The and the sharing of rationales for decision-making.
majority of Viridors employees are male 83.8%, reflecting a traditionally male-dominated industry.
The ratio is similar across senior management with 16.2% female.
This is just short of our goal of increasing the number of women to at least 20% by the end of the 2015 16 financial year.
In South West Water over 25% of the workforce is female, although in the craft and industrial group female ratios are very low at less than 1%.
We are focusing on this as an area for improvement, in particular in operational and technical roles.
