| STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE CUSTOMERS AND COMMUNITIES CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Pennon aims to be a good neighbour and Pennons water businesses maintained their previous high levels consults with its stakeholders in order of customer satisfaction during the year.
South West Waters overall customer satisfaction remained broadly stable at 89% to understand and respond to their 2014 15 90%, with satisfaction regarding value for money at 59%, 1% higher than last year.
For 16 years Bournemouth Water priorities.
We aspire to have a positive has retained the biennial Customer Service Excellence Award, effect on quality of life, communities and which it last received in 2014.
This national award recognises service excellence across the measures of timeliness, quality of regional economies.
information, professionalism and employee attitude.
A key indicator of customer service performance for the water PENNONS CUSTOMER STRATEGY businesses is the service incentive mechanism SIM, which Ofwat Central to our strategy is the management of the Group as uses to compare the performance of water companies.
The a sustainable and successful business for the benefit of all of SIM score is calculated against a qualitative element based on our stakeholders.
We recognise that consultation with our a customer survey and a quantitative element that takes into customers, a key stakeholder group, is imperative in order to account, among other things, the number of complaints received understand their priorities and deliver the level of service that in writing or by phone.
South West Waters SIM score for the they require.
In turn, this helps us to build a solid reputation for year was 78.6 continuing the improving trend of recent years, high quality customer service, which contributes to the creation of and Bournemouth Waters SIM score at 86.2 remains one of the shareholder value.
South West Waters customer strategy will be realised through Viridor also conducted an extensive customer research survey in delivery of its Business Plan to 2020, which places customer 2015, involving over 1,000 customers in sectors including retail, priorities at the heart of all its services and activities, aiming to education, food production and construction, as well as our deal with customer requests, problems and queries quickly and local authority clients.
The output of the research will help us to efficiently, and ensuring that the service provided represents value take smarter business decisions in order to meet our customers for money for all customers, whether residential or business.
needs, deliver customer benefits and drive business growth.
Bournemouth Waters strong customer service ethos and RESPONSIVE TO CUSTOMERS NEEDS impressive track record of service excellence means it is well Household water customers expect to have a choice of placed to support the delivery of Pennons customer strategy communication methods through which queries can be raised: through the sharing of best practice.
they expect their issues to be resolved on the first contact and For Viridor, the focus is on a programme of initiatives to enhance as quickly as possible.
In order to meet this expectation, our the customer experience across its large and diverse range of approach is to focus on recruitment, training and employee large corporate, commercial and local authority clients, while development, and enhance and promote the services we ensuring a consistent and transparent approach.
South West Water saw an improvement in first time resolution of contacts from customers during the year, reflecting both operational improvements and ongoing work to improve customer service through the proactive delivery of information, advice and support.
This includes the availability of self-service options and real time information through digital platforms such as MyAccount, WaterLive and BeachLive.
A revamped web presence is also in development for 2016 17.
Over time, we intend to migrate Bournemouth Water to South West Waters technology and systems to give customers more choice and flexibility.
This will include providing an online billing and account management facility, increasing use of electronic communication channels and introducing social media.
Our waste recovery and recycling services have been developed in response to customer demands for zero waste recycling-led services that reflect the waste hierarchy, improve resource efficiency and contribute towards a more circular economy.
36 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Viridors customers expect to receive a high quality and reliable Bournemouth Water also offers a range of support and payment service, financial integrity and transparency, and the highest options.
Specially trained and experienced employees, together standards of compliance.
An increasing number of Viridors with local debt charities, help customers manage their bills customers also want clear auditing and reporting of recycling, in times of financial hardship.
With customers support, we resource and carbon management practices, alongside a are looking to introduce a social tariff later in 2016 to help the commitment to continuous improvement and engagement with most vulnerable in the community.
us as a supply chain partner.
METERING Viridor continues to offer a progressive and collaborative South West Water and Bournemouth Water continue to approach to service and sustainability, epitomised in the promote the benefits of metering, including water efficiency, the aggregated services model we are developing with our partners identification of leaks and the savings that can be made.
This is not only delivering results in terms of South West Waters customers are now metered 2014 15 of increased recycling and landfill diversion but is supporting and 79% with 6,058 installations carried out over the past year for contributing to the regions decentralised energy and low carbon customers switching to metering.
In 2015 16, Bournemouth ambitions, aiming to attract further inward investment within the Water installed 2,553 meters against a target of 1,860.
70% of all broader context of the Northern Powerhouse.
Bournemouth Waters customers are now metered.
SUPPORT FOR THOSE WHO NEED IT NON-HOUSEHOLD RETAIL STRATEGY South West Water has implemented a range of innovative Preparations are being made to maximise the opportunities industry-leading schemes to assist those customers with presented by the opening of the non-household retail market in affordability or debt issues, such as its WaterCare scheme and 2017 while continuing to improve the services provided to our initiatives delivered in partnership with Citizens Advice.
We were one of the first water companies to introduce a social A separate legal entity has been created, Pennon Water tariff to ease financial pressures on very low income customers Services, which operates from Bournemouth.
This company will and to introduce the FreshStart grant scheme to assist those new provide retail and water management services to our c. 85,000 to debt as a result of a downturn in their personal circumstances, non-household customers, who will be eligible for the water such as a bereavement or long-term illness.
retail market in 2017, through our existing brands South West Water Business Services, Source for Business, Avon Valley Water, Through partnerships with social housing providers, we Bournemouth Water Business Services and Aquacare.
are providing affordability help and advice to residents in order to build positive customer relationships and reduce customer debt.
A key part of our non-household strategy will be to capitalise During 2015 16 this included targeted work with Teign Housing on Viridors national footprint, focusing on existing customer and North Devon Homes which resulted in a 170% increase relationships and exploring the opportunities to provide in the uptake of affordability schemes, increased metering and value-added services.
WE ASPIRE TO HAVE A POSITIVE EFFECT ON QUALITY OF LIFE, COMMUNITIES AND REGIONAL ECONOMIES.
co. uk 2016 37 | STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE CUSTOMERS AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED In 2016 both Viridor and South West Water received 2.5 stars PENNONS COMMUNITY RELATIONS out of five in the Business in the Communitys 2016 Corporate STRATEGY Responsibility CR Index.
This is a rigorous and robust We aim to ensure that all our business activities have a positive benchmarking tool which has helped hundreds of companies impact on the communities in which we operate.
With over 1,000 measure and manage the progress they are making to integrate operating facilities and treatment works, it is important that we responsible business practice into their mainstream business at maintain the highest operational standards, meet community all levels.
expectations and deliver clear community benefits in our service areas.
We achieve this by: Bournemouth Water provides support through community volunteering and the company matches the fundraising of undertaking our activities in a way that minimises potential its employees.
Employees of both South West Water and adverse effects on society, the environment and on those living Bournemouth Water continue to support WaterAid via regular or working in proximity to our sites giving and participating in events and challenges, helping to bring ensuring a positive economic impact on the local economy safe water and sanitation to those desperately in need.
through the provision of essential services, employment and supply chain opportunities During 2015 16 Pennon provided a total of 12.1 million in community support, sponsorship and charitable donations, of conducting open and transparent engagement with local 1 communities and taking into account their needs and priorities which 11.8 million was paid to Viridor Credits for distribution via the Landfill Communities Fund.
making community investments that create benefits for both the community and the Groups core businesses COMMUNITY SUPPORT, SPONSORSHIP fostering an environment that encourages employees to AND DONATIONS engage with communities and provides opportunities for establishing partnerships with community organisations.
SOUTH WEST WATER Both South West Water and Viridor have developed their own strategies to deliver Pennons community vision.
South 2011 12 79,858 West Water is focusing on strengthening its profile within the 2012 13 73,301 communities it serves, creating opportunities for employee 2013 14 90,921 engagement and developing long-term collaborations with charity 2014 15 106,188 and sponsorship partners, including the Royal National Lifeboat Institution, the Devon and Cornwall Food Association, the Devon 2015 16 136,250 Wildlife Trust and the South West Coast Path Association.
Viridor offers structured and transparent programmes of community investment, linked to its core business and VIRIDOR m guided by its community strategy.
Such activities include an annually reviewed programme of targeted charitable giving 2011 12 10.4 and sponsorship, education and engagement, and employee 2012 13 10.7 volunteering opportunities.
2013 14 13.5 2014 15 12.8 2015 16 12.0 Including amounts paid to Viridor Credits for distribution via the Landfill Communities Fund 1 Viridor Credits is an independent not-for-profit organisation that was set up to administer Viridors contributions to the Landfill Communities Fund.
38 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UPDATE: VIRIDOR STREET TREES GREATER MANCHESTER Viridors innovative urban tree planting project, in partnership with Red Rose Forest, an environmental charity, celebrated its fifth year in 2015 16.
The partnership seeks to reward key recycling customers by allowing them to give something back to their local communities and contribute to a greener Greater Manchester, by identifying local streets and working with communities to plant and maintain semi-mature street trees.
The partnership has directly engaged 1,092 residents, planted 154 semi-mature trees and improved 3,144 metres of urban roadside.
Via its regional educational programme, Viridor will continue to support Red Rose Forests new movement City of Trees which aims to plant three million trees in the next two decades, one for every man, woman and child in Greater Manchester.
RECREATION AND LEISURE EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING The recreational opportunities and facilities available at South West South West Water has an active volunteering programme that Waters reservoirs are managed on its behalf by the South West enables staff to take part in agreed community projects including Lakes Trust.
Sailing, fishing, windsurfing, wakeboarding, nature trails beach cleans and habitat restoration.
These are often linked and cycling are just a few of the activities the trust helps to facilitate.
with external groups, such as Keep Britain Tidy and the regions A highlight for 2015 16 was the achievement of a Green Tourism wildlife trusts.
In 2015 16 the volunteering programme included Gold Award for Wimbleball Lake in December 2015, recognising tree planting and woodland expansion at Park Lake, a designated the trusts work to promote sustainable tourism.
County Wildlife Site in North Cornwall.
Bournemouth Water owns around three-quarters of Christchurch Viridor employees continued to fundraise for their preferred Harbour, together with the tidal reaches of both the Stour and charities, including Breast Cancer Now, Jeans for Genes, Save Avon rivers, and offers fishing in the harbour and the Lower Stour, the Children and Viridors main charity partner, the Childrens as well as a range of fishing locations at Longham Lakes.
A new partnership with Plantlife, an organisation manage a wide range of moorings in the harbour, which provides that promotes the protection of wild flowers and plants, was easy access to one of the most popular areas for boating on the recently confirmed.
Bournemouth Water encourages its employees to spend three days each year working on community initiatives with charitable CUSTOMER CAMPAIGNS organisations, schools, wildlife trusts and other community We strive to engage, educate and inform residents and businesses partners.
Volunteering resulted in 201.5 employee days being about water usage, sewer blockages, waste prevention and best spent in the community during 2015 16. practice in recycling and resource efficiency.
In Greater Manchester an updated communications plan for 2015-2018 has been developed to drive behavioural change and increase recycling in communities that have been identified as mid-performing and hard to reach.
Viridor also works with Somerset Waste Partnership and West Sussex County Council to deliver comprehensive educational and behavioural change programmes to a wide range of stakeholders.
In 2015 South West Water launched its Love Your Loo community engagement campaign aimed at reducing sewer blockages and sewer flooding incidences.
The campaign began in Falmouth, where the local public toilets received the red carpet treatment in an attempt to engage local residents and visitors to the area.
co. uk 2016 39 | STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE CUSTOMERS AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR EDUCATION SKILLS FOR THE FUTURE To promote environmental sustainability and increase the level South West Water is a leading partner, together with the of understanding about the sectors in which we operate, we are University of Exeter and South Devon College, in the actively engaged with schools, colleges and universities.
Pennon development of a new University Technical College UTC for Group provides educational resources and activities ranging from South Devon, based in Newton Abbot.
The college, which school talks to work experience placements and site visits.
opened in October 2015, places a unique focus on engineering, water and the environment and caters for up to 600 young In 2015 16 Viridor welcomed over 17,000 students and visitors people aged between 14 and 18. to its 11 educational facilities.
The visitor centre at Ardley Energy Recovery Facility ERF won the Chartered Institution of Wastes Students will achieve academic and technical qualifications, Managements award for Waste and Resource Learning & enabling them to progress to positions as technicians, apprentices Development for its work to educate children about the benefits and graduate engineers, thereby making a valued and sustainable of reducing, reusing and recycling waste, and energy recovery.
A contribution to the industry and the region.
new education facility at the Glasgow Recycling and Renewable Energy Centre is planned for 2016 17.
UNIVERSITY PARTNERSHIPS Viridor collects the waste and recycling for a number of Bournemouth Water has developed a bespoke water efficiency universities including the universities of Exeter, Kent and education programme, Waterwise, which is available free to all Glasgow.
Our partnerships with these key customers have schools within the companys area of supply.
In Exeter we secured a three-year contract with the potential to extend for another two.
This will INSPIRING THE NEXT GENERATION OF deliver three fundamental objectives: to improve the institutions ENGINEERS recycling rate by providing support and education to university Viridors flagship educational partnerships with the Engineering staff and students, an upgrade on vehicles that will allow a Development Trusts Go4SET programme in Scotland and pay-by-weight solution and the delivery of zero waste to landfill.
Business in the Communitys Business Class programme are helping establish long-term productive partnerships with Viridor has secured a further three to five-year contract with the University of Kent.
This long-established relationship has secondary schools.
These innovative programmes closely align with the science, technology, engineering and mathematics seen the university achieve a recycling rate of 65%.
We continue to support the its zero waste strategy by helping it to further STEM curriculum with real world applications in industry, and help to inspire and connect students with career opportunities in increase recycling and utilise our ERF for energy generation.
In 2015 16, South West Water supported a successful bid, led In Wales, Viridor runs a programme for Girls into STEM that by the University of Exeter, to secure 0.7 million from the European Commissions Horizon 2020 programme.
The funds supports the ambition of the Engineering Education Scheme Wales EESW to encourage more young women to take up will be used to conduct pioneering investigations into how policymakers can develop strategies to meet the climate educational and career options in engineering and science.
change challenges facing water, food and energy provision.
Bournemouth Water has maintained its successful partnership with the Students Union at Bournemouth University and, with its support, continues to run campaigns to engage students with the aim of increasing awareness of the social impact of non-payment of their bills.
40 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REGIONAL ECONOMIC IMPACTS SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAINS As an essential service provider and a significant employer and Supply chain engagement remains an integral element of user of third party services, South West Water has a major sustainable business practice and delivers real economic and economic impact on its region.
We work with local enterprise social benefit.
partnerships LEPs and are actively involved with European South West Water annually places approximately 100 million of Structural Fund and Rural Development Programme Monitoring order value with companies which have a base in the region.
Our Committees to support economic growth, resilience and match procurement process sets standards for how individual suppliers funding opportunities for delivery partners.
approach economic, financial and environmental sustainability and South West Water also works with partners to maximise funding rigorous steps are taken to ensure they meet strict criteria in this opportunities on behalf of the communities it serves.
The water business operates a mixed economy supply Cornwall Council and the Environment Agency, we are part of chain model which uses smaller specialist companies alongside a bid to secure European Union funding for a 20 million flood larger strategic partners.
Following the merger with Bournemouth defence scheme in South East Cornwall.
Water, the existing procurement strategy is being carried forward across both companies.
Viridors programme of investment, which includes the UKs largest power plant programme over the last five years, has: Viridor continues to strengthen its approach to procurement and supply chain relationships via its procurement team and provided 3,700 construction jobs and 470 new, full-time has a wide range of policies and protocols in this important skilled jobs area.
These include a policy on sustainable procurement which supported 90 construction apprentices and 50 utilises whole-life costings and criteria to ensure clear social and construction graduate trainees, along with 230 work environmental responsibility for goods and services procured.
placement opportunities This approach helped deliver benefits of over 2.6 million in 2015 16, demonstrating long-term value for us and, in turn, spent over 190 million with SMEs and other supply chain our customers.
partners in the communities around our facilities.
Examples of activities supporting Pennons sustainable Our ERF construction projects will continue to add to the already procurement objective include the adoption of in-cab technology significant community benefits provided.
As an example, Viridor that monitors driver behaviour and helps to reduce accidents, and its contractors are firmly committed to realising an ambitious fuel usage and carbon emissions: the trial of electric and package of community benefits as part of the delivery of the hybrid vehicles as part of a review of the transport fleet: the 177 million ERF at Dunbar, East Lothian.
Over 3 million of introduction of limits on CO emissions for company cars: 2 sub-contracts have been awarded to local companies, and a series and, at Viridor, a tender for the procurement of new printing of meet the buyer and job events have been held with more and photocopying equipment that will reduce the amount and planned for the coming year.
cost of printing, as well as a move to environmentally friendly office supplies.
