44 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Building a sustainable business provide information and guidance on the Corporate Responsibility home buying process and will support our c. 50% Our Corporate Responsibility Committee customers with the practicalities of moving of our private sales were reviews, monitors and evaluates day to make it as straightforward and sustainability performance within the for less than 200,000 enjoyable as possible.
Committee membership is As part of our design process we listen drawn from all parts of the Groups to our customers comments regarding operations to maintain clear alignment house type design, finishes and features with the Groups strategy.
By organising to ensure our new homes offer choices its work into the five areas set out below, that our customers prefer.
A key part of Our Customers, Our Environment, our sales and development process is to Our People, Our Wellbeing and offer good availability and choice of house OurCommunities, we ensure that the types on all our developments.
We believe interests of all stakeholders in the Group an important element to delivering good are addressed.
Detailed information on service to our customers is to enable them our approach to Corporate Responsibility to reserve their new home at an early stage together with case studies can be found in in the development process so as to create our 2016 Sustainability Report available at as much certainty as possible in support www.
This allows greater opportunity for our customers to choose Our Customers from a range of bespoke extras which Delivering good quality new homes and we offer through our Finishing Touches great service to our customers is the range so as to deliver a home tailored Groups priority.
All members of our team to their needs and preferences.
We aim are responsible for delivering high levels of to make the legal process of buying the customer satisfaction.
home as straightforward and prompt as is possible working closely with the Our land replacement processes focus customers solicitor and mortgage provider on acquiring new land in locations to conclude matters efficiently.
which deliver high amenity value to local Supporting the affordability of new communities providing great confidence homes for our customers by providing to our customers that they are buying a a comprehensive range of selling prices new home in the right location for their and by exercising strong control over family.
Through the drive for excellence development costs is of paramount in execution of our development plans importance to us.
Our site sales teams we have the opportunity to create places support our customers in deciding on the where our customers wish to live and right choice of new home for their family.
The Groups house type designs In 2016 the Groups average selling price and approach to development scheme was 206,765 with c. 50% of our private layouts is focused on creating sustainable new homes being sold for 200,000 or environments that offer a compelling less.
Our typical house type mix on a choice for our customers to enjoy.
development provides a comprehensive We continue to invest in the skills and range and is designed to generate strong systems that support our sales teams to interest from first time buyers and first provide excellent levels of service to our time movers.
The Governments Help customers, particularly in respect of the to Buy shared equity loan scheme is specification of our homes and the amenity providing greater access to the owner value of each of our developments.
occupier market, principally for first We understand that buying a new time buyers, by supporting the buyer to home, and then preparing to move in, is purchase a newly built home with a 5% complicated and at times challenging.
Mortgage lenders are also keen Our sales teams have the expertise to to support these customers and offer the most favourable interest rates on loans Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 45 associated with this scheme.
During the Whilst these initiatives are delivering year 6,970 of our customers bought a new tangible improvements in our customer 93% home with a Government Help to Buy satisfaction ratings we remain determined of construction waste shared equity loan.
to deliver further advancement this year.
recycled We also seek to provide strong support Our Environment to existing home owners to achieve their move into a newly built home.
We offer As part of our development approach Part Exchange facilities to remove the we aim to minimise the impact we have worries that usually accompany the on the environment.
Key elements of our uncertainties associated with home buying processes for assessing and designing chains.
During 2016 10% of our private our developments have the objective of sale customers took advantage of this minimising both our direct and indirect opportunity to assist their move.
To support our execution of more efficient development As a key part of the Groups drive to activity we identify all major environmental support the sustainability of communities risks that we face in both the short and we delivered 2,218 homes 2015: 2,147 to long term.
Our development processes our housing association partners during include appropriate management the year.
This low cost housing delivered actions that will mitigate these risks.
by our Westbury Partnerships business Addressing these issues at the start represented c. 15% of our sales and helps of our development plans ensures our support social inclusion within the local environmental performance remains communities that we serve.
robust and helps the Group secure more During 2016 we have continued to sustainable business processes.
invest additional resources in new The most important indirect environmental customer focused initiatives to improve impact of our development activities is our customers buying experience the ongoing effect of our new homes.
and our NHBC HBF 3 star rating.
Our focus is to build new homes to high This is yielding further improvement in sustainability standards harnessing performance with the majority of the the benefits of good design, and Groups operating businesses showing improvements in materials and building progress.
Prior to customers moving into techniques to deliver new homes with high their new home we have improved our sustainable qualities.
Our Space4 business communication processes with them manufactures components to support a to provide greater understanding of the modern method of housing construction progress we are making in constructing as discussed above.
Space4 focuses on their new home.
We have strengthened a fabric first approach to the construction our build management processes to of new homes with strong sustainability facilitate delivery to expected timeframes.
The off-site manufacture of Additional support is being provided timber frames together with wall panels through reinvigorated processes to and roof cassettes which are highly demonstrate the features of the new home insulated delivers new homes that are to customers, assistance with identifying highly thermally efficient and air tight with any small remaining issues on moving in minimal waste.
The new homes built using day and providing improved systems and Space4 technology support the delivery processes for our customer care teams of an average energy efficiency for the to support the prompt rectification of Groups new homes as measured by the any outstanding matters.
Customer care performance is reflected in relevant employees remuneration to support a closer alignment to the Groups objectives.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 46 Corporate responsibility continued Standard Assessment Procedure SAP 2015: 3,910tonnes CO e. Our total 2 of 83, which is 40% more energy efficient c. 550 operational carbon footprint in 2016 was than existing housing stock which has 32,599 tonnes CO e 2015: 31,557 tonnes 2 trainees and apprentices an average SAP rating of 59.
Importantly, CO e, an increase of 3.3%.
This increase 2 Space4 adds to the Groups capability is principally attributable to the growth to implement future changes to building in number of homes built by the Group regulations that target reductions in carbon and the accompanying level of activity emissions and other measures that will throughout our business year on year.
As a further Legal completions of new homes sold by extension of our off-site manufacturing the Group increased by 4% over the prior capability we are in the process of year.
The amount of CO e per home sold in 2 establishing our own concrete brick 2016 was 2.15 tonnes, a 0.9% decrease on manufacturing facility as mentioned the prior year 2015: 2.17 tonnes CO e. 2 earlier in this report.
This facility has been We have continued to review our energy procured on the basis of achieving very low use and have pursued actions aimed energy usage, concrete brick manufacture at reducing our energy costs and uses very little energy when compared to minimising consumption where possible.
the firing process of manufacturing clay These measures include an assessment brick.
Having the capability to produce of the cost and benefit of upgrading site around two thirds of the Groups current machinery, the continued reduction in the brick requirements, this plant will make CO emissions from our motor fleet, and 2 an important contribution to reducing the a reduction in print and copying volumes Groups indirect impact on the environment across the business.
by reducing energy usage and carbon emissions within our supply chain.
Our People We monitor our operational efficiency and We believe that having a highly skilled direct environmental impact by measuring and diverse workforce supported by a the amount of waste that we generate and merit-based culture is an important part of recycle for each home we build.
In 2016 the Groups growth and success, as well we again increased the amount of waste as being fundamental to supporting the we recycled to 93% 2015: 92% thereby wellbeing of our workforce.
Our people are minimising the amount of waste sent to key to supporting the Groups successful landfill despite the amount of waste per growth in its operations across the UK.
home built increasing a little to 6.6 tonnes The right skills to buy land, plan our 2015: 6.3 tonnes.
developments, build quality homes and In 2016 we again collated data provide good service to our customers captured across the Group and from arecritically important.
our suppliers to identify the amount of Since 2013 the Group has experienced energy used in construction activities on a rapid increase in the number of its our development sites.
We have then employees in line with the acceleration used DEFRA environmental reporting of the Groups growth as the market guidelines and emission factors from recovered from the downturn of DEFRAs Greenhouse Gas Conversion 2008 2009.
To support and control the Factors Repository as a methodology Groups growth we have continued to forcalculating our emissions.
invest in the Groups workforce with the Our Scope 1 direct emissions for gas, total number of our employees increasing transport and construction site fuel to an average of 4,526 2015: 4,188. use in 2016 were 28,047 tonnes CO e 2 Our strengthened selection, engagement, 2015: 27,647 tonnes CO e. Our Scope 2 2 indirect emissions for electricity in 2016 were 4,552 tonnes CO e 2 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 47 induction and training processes provide The Group is committed to having a full The Health and Safety teams structure opportunity for all our staff to fulfil their and active role in the Home Building Skills and considerable experience enables responsibilities to the best of their ability.
Partnership, a joint initiative between the them to help each of our operational The opening of five new businesses over Construction Industry Training Board management teams to strive to recent years has provided the opportunity and the Home Builders Federation which achieve high levels of health and safety for a good number of our staff to take aims to train over 40,000 new trades performance across all aspects of our on greater responsibilities as they have people by 2019 to help address the operations, especially recognising the mastered their skills in key functional areas skills shortage that presents such a key significant increase in construction activity of the business.
We support and mentor challenge to expanding output by the on ourdevelopment sites.
our talented staff to help them realise industry.
This initiative commenced in Our approach to health and safety is based their potential.
Persimmon has a long April 2016 and the initial working group on careful planning and management established tradition of promoting from is pulling together a skills strategy and of our construction activities on site.
within the business wherever possible.
implementation objectives with publication We emphasise a pro-active approach with Reward for successfully contributing of this anticipated for Spring 2017. both collective and individual responsibility to the performance of the business We believe that a diverse work for health and safety risk identification and over the long term is a priority for the force supported by a vibrant meritmitigation.
All our workforce are required to Group and secures the human resource based working environment is an obtain health and safety certification prior platform that is instrumental in driving the important part of the Groups success.
to starting work on site and this certification business forward.
As at 31 December 2016 we employed forms part of their application for a Importantly, we have continued to support 4,483people, 25% of which were female.
Construction Skills Certification Scheme a large number of trainees and apprentices We have two female and six male directors CSCS card.
in our business, the Group currently on the Companys Board and 19 female We have continued to focus on monitoring employs c. 550 trainees.
We are pleased colleagues in our 154 strong senior the effective implementation of the Groups with the progress we are making with our management team.
health and safety policies as well as Combat to Construction and Upskill Further information on our employees and ensuring detailed incident led investigations to Construction training programmes.
human rights can be found on our website are carried out promptly when necessary.
These are focused on UK service www.
com Each operating business aims for full personnel leaving the armed services and in the corporate responsibility section.
compliance with Group policies and more mature trainees that wish to retrain We have no material issues to report procedures with performance above and and gain the trade skills necessary to concerning human rights.
Our Modern beyond required standards being reviewed pursue a successful career with the Group.
Slavery Statement can also be found on for incorporation into future policy if We believe that all employees and this website.
The internal risk management subcontractors can perform to their framework and work implemented by the full potential with the right support and Group Health and Safety department is Our Wellbeing training.
We have again increased our verified by an external independent advisor The wellbeing, health and safety of our training commitment for both young on a rotational basis to ensure compliance employees, workforce, and customers is and mature apprentices and trainees standards are maintained.
Our health the top operational priority for the Group.
across all disciplines in our business, and safety colleagues provide additional including planning, technical, construction support to local operating businesses to The Group ensures that the investment management and sales.
We provided provide any bespoke training needs and in Group Health and Safety resources over 10,500 training days to employees improvement actions required.
devoted to ensuring our development and our construction workforce in 2016 sites and offices remain safe and healthy During 2016 we reported 47 incidents 2015: 10,210 an average of 2.3 days environments is appropriate.
The growth under the Reporting of Incidents Diseases per employee 2015: 2.4.
We are keen of the Groups development activities and and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations to harness the Governments new office network has been supported by an RIDDORs to the Health and Safety Apprenticeship Levy, which is introduced increase in Health and Safety department Executive which was level with 2015 from April 2017, to support our traditional employees to 28 staff under the direction despite our increased levels of construction apprenticeship programmes to increase ofour Group Health and Safety Director.
We managed to reduce our the number of skilled trades people Annual Incident Injury Rate marginally to to support the future growth of the 3.59 accidents per thousand workers Groups business.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016
