Corporate Social Responsibility Responsible retailing is at the heart of our business Green Paws Responsible Retailing people pet planet Our vision Our vision is to be the best pet shop in the world and we use our Green Paws PawPrint to highlight the four pillars of our strategy which will help us to achieve this.
Heart of the Community Our Pets People Sourcing with Integrity Our Pets Environment To be the best pet shop in the world Pets at Home Group Plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance Behaving responsibly is Overview Over the course of the year: Responsible retailing is at the heart of integral to how our business our business.
Living our values to the full We maintained our excellent record operates and fundamental to provides our customers with the consistent of colleague engagement at 94%: experience they expect from us whether Our Santa Paws campaign raised delivering across our PawPrint.
they visit our stores, transact online, 770,000 to provide meals for pets or engage the services of our vets or in rescue centres over Christmas: groomers.
It is our values that drive us Over the Easter weekend we suspended Board of Directors to provide ever higher standards of pet the sale of rabbits to lessen the welfare and inspire our colleagues to help pressure for impulse purchases: and support local animal charities.
And, of We are on track to achieve our target course, our values underpin our business of zero waste to landfill.
Strategic direction, model and the investment case we present Pets objectives & CSR Board to shareholders.
We are proud of these achievements, but Before profit Committee Group targets Committee with we get better every day as one of our This year has seen us make further values we recognise there is still further to progress.
Our governance structure is now go.
We look forward to reporting progress well established and ensures that our in the years ahead.
Strategy, detailed Corporate Social Responsibility objectives CSR targets and are aligned with and supportive of our Operations implementation Board broader business strategy.
Tessa Green Chairman of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and Pets Before Profit Committee 25 May 2016 Visualising our CSR strategy: Our CSR strategy has been developed over time, with its key objectives driven by the feedback we have received from a wide range of stakeholders, as well as aligning with our broader business objectives.
Our pillars Our Pets People Heart of the Community Sourcing with Integrity Our Pets Environment To be a great place Being at the heart of Always putting Pets Respecting and using Our vision to work every community Before Profit resources efficiently Exceptional colleague Leading the way in responsible Driving standards in Eliminating waste sent Our objectives engagement pet ownership the pet industry to landfill World class training Rehoming pets in need Promoting the highest Using less energy of new families possible animal welfare Keeping Our Pets People Rethinking our packaging standards healthy and safe Providing lifelines to local and Becoming more fuel efficient national charitable causes Colleague engagement Online booking platform All suppliers confirmed in Retendered waste contract Progress maintained: improved introduced for My Pet Pals pet compliance with our animal to achieve goal in year 1 ranking in Great Place care workshops testing policy Successful pilot to reduce to Work survey In-store rehoming centres provide Pet food with rabbit ingredient energy being rolled out to Steps 1 and 2 training safe haven for small animals phased out on welfare all stores received external until new homes can be found grounds: replaced with more Single-use carrier bags accreditation sustainable alternatives VIP loyalty scheme provides upgraded and now Colleague and customer lifelines from every purchase Pet care leaflets updated manufactured in the UK accident rates reduced in conjunction with RSPCA Ongoing fleet upgrades to Gold standard incorporated Euro 6 emissions standards into quarterly store pet audits Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Stakeholder engagement Over the past year we have consulted widely to ensure that our programme for CSR is Customers Regular surveys of our 4.5m VIP club members not only integrated within our business objectives but is also relevant to our stakeholders.
Colleagues Annual Were All This has helped confirm our priorities and the allocation of resources to ensure that Ears opinion survey.
our activity is focused on areas where we can achieve the greatest impact socially, Regular meetings and environmentally and financially.
informal engagement to gather views Environmental materiality assessment Shareholders Regular engagement with major shareholders, including active membership of KKR Green Portfolio Programme Electricity Suppliers Regular conferences Packaging and dialogue with UK Waste and Asia suppliers Water Animal welfare Collaboration and dialogue organisations on issues that are Diesel Bioimportant to them and us diversity Policy makers Developing dialogue with organisations involved Gas in the administration of public policy Importance to the business In addition to maintaining a regular operation that have the most significant What does CSR mean to you?
communication with our customers impact on the environment and to assess through MyVIP magazine and newsletters, how they are likely to change in the years this year we undertook a representative ahead.
The results of this analysis will help 52% survey of customers from our VIP club direct our actions to mitigate these impacts 38% database to gauge their views.
When and reduce our costs.
Ethics, honesty Giving back to society, asked what CSR meant to them, ethics, and responsibility helping people honesty and responsibility was chosen by Over the year, and following the 52% of respondents, followed by giving appointment of a specialist Energy back to society and helping people, which Manager, we have made good progress What are the CSR issues most important was chosen by 38% of respondents.
in the areas we prioritised energy to a pet retailer?
When asked to rank the most important consumption, waste management issues for a pet retailer, pet welfare and and packaging and transport.
ethical sourcing overwhelmingly came 83% out top, chosen by 83% and 64% In this report we present the progress we 64% of respondents respectively.
have made against the objectives set last Responsible Ethical sourcing policy year and the targets we have set to make pet welfare pets and products Given the importance of pet welfare, it further progress in the years ahead.
was pleasing that customers were most Awareness of CSR initiatives aware of the donations we make to pet 5 point scale totally unaware to fully aware rescue centres and the care we take of the pets in our stores.
3.71 We also conducted a formal environmental 3.36 materiality assessment with stakeholders.
0 1 2 3 4 5 Through the feedback we obtained from investors, management and our store Charitable donations Pet care within to pet rescue centres our stores colleagues, we have been able to identify, understand and quantify the areas of our Representative sample of 1,038 VIP members surveyed, September 2015.
Pets at Home Group Plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Importance to stakeholders Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance Our Pets People Our commitment At Pets at Home, the role that highly trained and engaged colleagues play is fundamental to becoming the best pet shop in the world.
2016 Targets & objectives 2016 Achievements 2017 Targets Exceptional Maintain colleague engagement Colleague engagement Maintain colleague colleague at 94% and increase strongly maintained at 94%.
engagement at 94% and engagement agree measure to 80%.
Strongly agree measure increase strongly agree maintained at 77%.
Maintain top 20 place in Great Improved to 7th place overall, Maintain top 10 place in Place to Work survey.
Great Place to Work survey.
World-class Steps 1 and 2 to achieve Steps 1 and 2 training Re-launch and re-brand training external accreditation.
programme endorsed by Steps 1 to 3.
Make Steps 1 and 2 available online.
Develop integrated approach for Step 3.
Every Groom Room to 44 completed: 128 studying this Every Groom Room to have have a Level 3 City & Guilds year-long programme.
a Level 3 City & Guilds certified colleague.
Recruit and train 100 Grooming apprentices.
Keeping our Reduce number of accidents by Achieved 8% reduction in Achieve a 5% reduction in Pets People 5% to below eight accidents per colleague accident rates colleague accident rates healthy and safe 1,000 colleagues.
per 1,000 colleagues and a reduction in RIDDOR reportable accidents.
Achieve distinction in the British Both Distribution Centres Re-apply for the Safety awards Safety Councils International awarded merit for second and aim to achieve a distinction Safety Awards.
Exceptional colleague colleague is provided with a log-in to our While we have a track record of providing online welcome portal called Inducktion rewarding flexible working patterns for engagement where they are introduced to our vision and our store colleagues, based around our values and get to see what life will be like contracted minimum of 16 hours per week, at Pets at Home.
On a colleague's first day we have recognised that there is more to 94% they receive a Were glad you are joining be done to promote flexible working among colleague engagement card which is signed by everyone in the management categories.
We have agreed team they will be working with.
Our rigorous to become a launch partner with Timewise In April 2016 we celebrated 25 years since approach to recruitment and induction in order to promote flexible working as the Company was founded and our first is reflected in our colleague turnover part of our management recruitment and store opened in Chester.
Over that time we within the first three months of only 1.9%.
We have changed have expanded our business significantly New Store Managers, Support Office our approach to recruitment, succession but we have stayed true to our core values colleagues, Grooming Salon Managers planning and flexible working to ensure we and we celebrated this milestone with our and Distribution Centre Managers all attract and grow the best talent who are colleagues.
"We also celebrate key moments attend a WOW ""Welcome to Our World"" able to find a career that works alongside in the careers of individual colleagues."
induction day at our Support Office.
addition, once colleagues are with us we Being a specialist retailer the expertise that continue to mark their service anniversaries, We have conducted our annual employee our colleagues accumulate over time and or Pets Birthdays, for one, three, five, ten, survey Were All Ears for nine years, share with our customers is a significant 15 and 20 years service.
with questions based on our values, factor in our success.
Even before they vision and culture.
start with Pets at Home, every new store Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Supporting our growth We have maintained our excellent record of Having completed Step 2, colleagues colleague engagement: this year it was receive additional training every year to in grooming 94% and, within that, 89% of colleagues ensure their knowledge of pet care is up believe My work has special meaning to date and we provide additional Steps this is not just a job.
for colleagues to develop their knowledge 240 further.
Step 3 provides more specialist salon and spa locations In addition to our regular internal knowledge in areas, such as aquatics, benchmarking exercises we have again small animals, reptiles, dogs and cats.
We have grown our grooming business taken part in the external Great Places to Our Step 3 nutrition programme is also rapidly from 129 Groom Room grooming Work survey.
This gives colleagues further endorsed by City & Guilds.
We have 471 salons in 2014 to 240 salons and spas in opportunities to provide feedback on what colleagues within the Group who have our stores or in standalone locations today.
they like about working at Pets at Home and achieved Step 3.
Our Learn to Earn model Our Groom Room customers trust us to how we can improve.
Having achieved 15th allows colleagues to increase their hourly care properly for their pets, to treat them position last year among larger companies, rate in increments as they complete each with respect and to return them safely.
we were pleased to have been ranked 7th Step 3 specialism.
This is a huge responsibility which is why overall in 2016, and the highest placed we invest so heavily in training for our retailer.
We were also shortlisted in the Step 4 was introduced in 2013 for Groom Room colleagues and why we have Most Trusted Leadership award in the colleagues who wanted to develop their worked closely with the RSPCA to have large companies category.
careers but didnt want to move into store our procedures endorsed by them.
Step 4 colleagues are experts, not only in their chosen specialist World-class training Training for our Groom Room colleagues categories, but also in how Pets at Home incorporates all the practical and manages these categories.
They are theoretical knowledge of the City & Guilds rewarded at the same level as Assistant level 3 diploma in dog grooming.
We deliver 4,937 Store Managers and provide additional this training in a three step programme colleagues completed Steps 1 and 2 training support for new store openings in their Prep it, Snip-it and Clip-it which takes local area.
At each step We believe it is essential that our our colleagues have to present a portfolio, colleagues are highly trained and able For colleagues who want to develop with written accounts and photographs, to offer the best and most up to date management careers we have specific of their work in the salon in addition to advice on pet care and all aspects of pet programmes for each stage that prepare practical assessments and online tests.
At the heart of this training is them for their promotion.
Our flagship In total our colleagues have 1,400 hours our STEPS programme which has been programme is Fast Track, a six-month of formal training.
developed to take account of the latest programme that provides a route to store thinking, and draw on the experience and management.
More than 50% of our store We also provide regular professional resources of our own expert Pet Team and managers are Fast Track graduates.
development programmes to maintain internationally respected consultants.
their knowledge and skills at a high level.
Having worked hard over a long period to This year our compulsory Steps 1 and 2 establish our leading level of colleague During the year we launched our Grooming training programmes have been endorsed retention we aim to maintain this in the apprenticeship scheme.
We currently have by City & Guilds, providing a stamp of future.
So, with the introduction of the 14 apprentices working in our Groom approval that demonstrates the value new National Living Wage from April 2016 Rooms and plan to offer a further 100 of our training to our colleagues, our we will not differentiate our rates for apprenticeships in the current financial customers and other stakeholders, colleagues under 25 and we will continue year.
The apprenticeship programme runs including welfare organisations.
We have to invest in our training and maintain the for one year, at the end of which we hope 4,937 colleagues who had completed principle of Learn to Earn.
to offer the apprentices permanent their compulsory Steps 1 and 2 training positions as fully trained stylists.
Pets at Home Group Plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance Power To Your Paws Power To Your Paws was fantastic.
Its the Amy Owen is a newly scheme Pets at Home has for store colleagues qualified stylist in the to learn about grooming and become a member of the Groom Room team.
I learned so much Altrincham Groom Room.
about different coat types and different breeds of dog, it really built my confidence.
I joined Pets at Home as a store colleague After Power To Your Paws I became an Assistant in April 2015.
Id always had an interest in Stylist and followed the Groom Rooms three grooming.
When I was 15 I had a Saturday job step training programme Prep it, Clip it and bathing dogs with an independent groomer.
Snip it and qualified as a stylist in June 2016.
When I left school I studied for a diploma in animal I love learning how to groom different dogs.
My management at Myerscough College in Preston.
favourites are the double-coated breeds like From there I knew I wanted to work with animals Labradors and German Shepherds.
When youve so Pets at Home was my dream job.
The training removed the dead coat they look great and our was excellent.
I completed Steps 1 and 2 which clients can really see the difference youve gave me the skills I needed to advise customers made when their dogs have been groomed.
about caring for their pet and the best diets to feed them.
But my ambition was always to work my way up to grooming.
Supporting our vets through Clinical Governance Framework Clinical Governance Clinical Governance is a system for improving the standard of clinical practice, which incorporates existing activities such as clinical audit, education and training, research and development and risk Education management.
The concept of Clinical & Training Governance is not yet widely recognised within the veterinary profession, which has no equivalent of the organisational structure that the NHS provides to medicine.
So while Risk Management Clinical audit we rely on the professional responsibility of the joint venture partners and their employed vets to comply with RCVS Clinical guidance and to practise to a high standard, Governance as the largest, fastest growing small animal veterinary group in the UK, we have an unprecedented opportunity to lead the way in shaping the landscape of clinical practice Clinical Openness effectiveness and to provide an environment conducive to improving our clinical knowledge, standards and decision making.
The measures we will adopt are based on the clinical governance Research recommendations found in the RCVS Guide and Development to Professional Conduct.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Keeping our Pets People Accident rates stores practices Distribution accident rates healthy and safe 11.54 8% 8.2 reduction in the colleague accident rate 0.58 7.48 0.45 0.44 We are committed to providing a safe and 0.32 healthy environment for all our colleagues, 1.5 1.29 1.1 customers and third party contractors.
We encourage a positive health and safety 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Colleague accident Customer accident Distribution colleague Distribution RIDDOR culture throughout our operations and rates per 1,000 rates per 100,000 accidents per 100,000 accident rates per 100,000 colleagues transactions have robust control measures in place to hours worked hours worked minimise the risk of incidents.
The Group Health & Safety Committee meets quarterly Group RIDDOR rates and our two Distribution Centres also host their own Health and Safety Committees, 0.48 each meeting seven times per year.
0.38 0.34 We continue to benchmark accident rates across the Group.
These include any accidents that have taken place in our joint venture veterinary surgeries.
"We report all 0.04 work related accidents in accordance with 0.02 0.02 the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Colleague RIDDOR Dangerous Occurrence Regulations accident rate per ""RIDDOR""."
We also classify all incidents 1,000 colleagues where we are aware a customer intends to go to hospital as RIDDOR reportable, which will result in some over reporting of RIDDORs.
Causes of accidents During the 2016 financial year, while total 1.
Minor animal bites 40% accidents across the Group decreased by 2.
Animal scratches stings 6% 1.5%, we saw a significant reduction in the 10 3.
Cut or scratch due to sharp object 14% 9 colleague accident rate from 8.17 to 7.48 4.
Exposed to or in contact with accidents per 1,000 colleagues, and a 8 a harmful substance 2% reduction in customer accidents from 1.29 1 5.
Fell from a height 1% 7 to 1.10 per 100,000 transactions.
Hit by a moving, ying or falling object 13% number of RIDDOR accidents remained 7.
Hit something xed or stationary 6% similar to the previous year in our stores 6 8.
Injured due to handling, lifting or carrying 4% and veterinary practices.
Injured while using knives Centres, there was a slight decrease of hand operated equipment 1% 0.01 accidents per 100,000 hours worked 5 2 10.
Slipped, tripped or fell on the same level 13% 4 3 and a 0.26 decrease in RIDDOR accidents in the year.
For the second consecutive year, both our Distribution Centres received the British Safety Councils International Safety Awards with Merit.
Pets at Home Group Plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Customer RIDDOR accident rates per 100,000 transactions Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance Heart of the Community Our commitment Being at the heart of every community is one of the core values we live by.
With 427 stores and 388 vet practices serving neighbourhoods the length and breadth of the UK we believe that we have a responsibility to contribute positively towards the wellbeing of our local communities.
2016 Targets & objectives 2016 Achievements 2017 Targets Leading the Roll out the pet workshop online 86,602 attendees at More than 100,000 way on responsible booking tool for every pet event.
attendees at My Pet Pals pet ownership pet care workshops.
Support our local communities Achieved.
Ongoing continue to by providing at least 1,000 work provide placements.
Rehoming pets Rehome more than 70,000 80,000 pets rehomed.
Continue to provide in need of pets through in-store opportunities to rehome new families rehoming centres.
Raise 1.9m in stores for Colleagues raised 1.8m with Stores to raise more than Support Adoption For Pets one fewer national fundraising last year through Santa Paws with an overall fundraising campaign, within which Santa to provide meals for pets in target of 3,148,950.
Paws alone raised 770,000. rescue centres.
Total raised by Support Adoption For Pets was 3.6m.
Providing lifelines Donate over 1.4m worth 1.8m donated.
Donate over 2m worth to local and of VIP lifelines to charities of lifelines.
national charities chosen by our customers.
Provide further 600,000 We support the Dogs Trust with Continue to support the Dogs worth of Wainwright's dog food for the dogs they rehome.
Trust with donations of food to the Dogs Trust.
This year 540,000 worth of food Wainwright's dog food for the was requested by the Dogs Trust.
Continue to provide a charity Every colleague can take a days Ongoing.
leave day for every colleague.
Leading the way on Pets are our passion as well as our business.
Educating the next generation Having worked consistently over the past of responsible pet owners responsible pet ownership 25 years, often in partnership with respected Over recent years we have established animal welfare organisations, to raise the a reputation for providing young people standards of pet welfare in our stores, through from Cubs, Brownies and Beavers with 86,602 our supply chains and for our customers, opportunities to learn more about the attendees at pet workshops we have lots to be proud of.
We celebrate responsibilities of pet ownership.
We believe pets on the success of this approach with youth are good for people and, in return, we go to organisations, during the year we rolled out significant lengths to ensure that prospective an online booking platform which enabled pet owners understand the responsibility parents to book children onto one of our that comes with pet ownership.
My Pet Pals events which we ran during the school holidays.
Over the course of the year 86,602 people attended one of these events to learn about what is needed to care for small mammals, fish and reptiles.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Over the Easter weekend alone some Rehoming pets in need 2,700 young people booked to attend one of new loving homes Selling pets responsibly of our My Pet Pals workshops to learn more about caring properly for pets.
At the same Pet ownership is a long term commitment and time, we suspended the sale of rabbits, before a sale takes place we first find out 80,000 recognising the close association of about the customer to help them choose a pet pets were found new loving homes through bunnies with Easter and the increased that is right for them.
Colleagues are required our adoption centres pressure on parents to buy a new family to follow a series of questions that are pre-loaded into a Pet Pad, our proprietary iPad pet at this time of year.
When selling a new pet we make great based application, developed to standardise efforts to find the right match between the and record every pet sale.
These questions My Pet Pals is one of a number of pet and its prospective owner and provide are specific to the types of pet offered for sale education events that stores hold for it with a loving forever home.
We address the following areas: organisations in their local communities owners can find that, for a variety of to promote responsible pet ownership.
reasons, they may be unable to continue The customer and their home To recognise their commitment and reward to care for their pets.
This is where our We dont sell pets to anyone under the their achievements these events contribute partnership with the charity Support age of 18 to our internal programme called My Pond Adoption For Pets becomes so important.
We check that the customer is the League which aims to reward the work We work closely with Support Adoption For homeowner or has the landlords consent colleagues do in their local community.
Pets, providing facilities and support in This reflects the importance we place stores for more than 400 pet rehoming The suitability of the pet they wish to buy on community involvement.
This year centres which provide a safe haven for We discuss the life expectancy and size our colleagues took the message of rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, gerbils, rats, of the pet when fully grown responsible pet ownership to more than and chinchillas until a new home can be We discuss compatibility with children 450 schools, nursing homes and local found.
Support Adoption For Pets will also and other pets fetes and engaged with some 650 groups rehome rabbits that are handed to the We discuss dietary requirements and of scouts, brownies and beavers.
RSPCA if the microchip identifies the pet to how these may change over the life of have been sold by Pets at Home.
Last year the pet more than 80,000 pets were found new We discuss requirements for housing, loving homes through the adoption centres handling and enrichment in our stores.
Transition to permanent home Support Adoption For Pets We wont sell a pet unless the customer Support Adoption For Pets is a registered confirms they are going straight home independent charity number 1104152 We dont sell fish at the same time as established by the Company, which exists the aquarium, or reptiles at the same to help give abandoned and homeless time as the vivarium.
We require these small animals a second chance at to be set up and running properly in happiness.
Support Adoption For Pets advance of the pet being purchased is also the UKs number one grant giving trust to national and local animal welfare We ask every customer to sign electronically charities and, since the charity was to confirm they have been provided with established in 2006, has supported more advice and a care leaflet for the pet they are than 1,000 animal charities across the buying.
Every colleague is empowered to refuse to sell a pet if they have any doubts country.
To support this important work, about the suitability of its forever home.
Only our stores and colleagues raised 1.8m when our colleagues are satisfied that the pet for Support Adoption For Pets which last will enjoy a happy and healthy life in its new year made grants of approximately 2m home will they proceed with the sale.
We to charities around the UK to help them apply the same principles to pets that are look after the pets in their care while new adopted from the in-store adoption centres.
We aim to follow up every sale or adoption after a few days with a call to the customer to check all is well and provide any additional advice that may be necessary.
Pets at Home Group Plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance Santa Paws Supporting local Using the proceeds from carrier bag sales Christmas is a special time of year for On 5 October 2015 the Government and national charities families including family pets.
However, introduced a compulsory 5p charge for not every pet is lucky enough to spend single use carrier bags in England.
Christmas with a loving, caring family.
For Companies affected by the new legislation 1.78m many pets, through no fault of their own, were required to donate the profits from this donated to local animal charities Christmas is spent in a rescue or rehoming charge to good causes.
We identified Dogs centre and it is with these pets in mind that for Good and Pets As Therapy as recipients Our stores and colleagues have developed we developed our annual Santa Paws of our donation and by the end of the year strong relationships with local animal campaign with Support Adoption For Pets.
28,294 had been raised for each charity rescues and rehoming centres.
They offer The concept is very simple.
Throughout from the sale of carrier bags.
opportunities for their charity partners to December we ask customers if they would promote their work in stores, the pets they like to add 50p to their purchases which Dogs for Good explores ways dogs can help are seeking to rehome, and to support their we donate to Support Adoption For Pets to people overcome specific challenges and fundraising activities.
buy Christmas meals for pets in rescue.
enrich and improve lives and communities.
At Christmas 2014 we raised enough from They look for sociable and confident, Customers too can make a huge difference these donations to provide 880,000 meals well-reared puppies and train them to help to local animal charities through our VIP and set ourselves a target of 1 million children and adults with physical disabilities loyalty scheme which awards points to meals in 2015.
Through the commitment and families affected by autism, or work in customers for every purchase made.
of our colleagues and the generosity of our schools and residential care settings.
Their These points are converted to VIP lifelines customers we beat this target substantially, PAWS Family Dog service brings together the which customers can then donate to their with more than 1.5 million meals donated parents and carers of children with autism to local animal charities.
In the past year, our from the 770,000 raised.
explore the helping potential that a pet dog VIP members have raised 1.78m through might have within the family.
The donation this scheme and supported more than from Pets at Home will help Dogs for Good 600 animal charities nationally.
reach more families who can benefit from having a well-trained dog in the family.
Pets As Therapy provides community based Animal Assisted Therapy through its volunteers who visit residential homes, hospitals, hospices, schools, day care centres and prisons with their own pets to bring comfort and companionship to individuals who appreciate having contact with a friendly animal.
However, requests for private visits, which are often to alleviate loneliness for elderly people or housebound people of all ages, make up 90% of PATs daily enquiries but they do not have the resources to invest in the infrastructure to make these requests a reality.
The funding from Pets at Home will enable Pets as Therapy to establish a 612 month pilot programme in 2016.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Sourcing with Integrity Our commitment Pets are both our business and our passion and Pets Before Profit has always been our number one core value.
Advocating the ethical and responsible treatment of pets is incredibly important to us and we believe the best way to do this is to lead by example, so we keep every aspect of our pet operations under regular scrutiny.
2016 Targets & objectives 2016 Achievements 2017 Targets Driving Deliver the re-audit programme we have Delivered as planned.
Audits Deliver all planned re-audits standards in put in place across our Asian registered extended to all suppliers and corrective action plans, the pet industry branded and PAH branded suppliers.
of PAH branded private ensuring all own brand and branded products.
private branded suppliers comply with our audit requirements.
All UK EU PAH branded and registered food Achieved.
suppliers to be either BRC or equivalent quality management standard accredited or to have been visited by a member of the food technical team.
Re-visit and revise our testing protocols Agreement reached with major Rollout new and updated across all categories to ensure relevant US retailer on shared protocols testing protocols across and up to date with the latest across a number of product our global vendor base, developments industry practice.
categories to enable suppliers in line with required legislation to reduce costs and deliver as a minimum.
Promoting the Continue to audit primary pet suppliers with All primary pet suppliers receive Develop Gold Standard pet highest possible at least eight audits per annum per supplier.
four independent audits in supplier audit with enhanced animal welfare addition to four audits from welfare stand.
standards our pet supply manager.
Incorporate a gold standard into the Implemented.
Roll out new aquatics water test.
Implemented and working Formalise overseas effectively.
Review code of practice for pet suppliers.
Code of practice reviewed Completed.
Pets at Home Group Plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance The results of these audits are carefully Driving the standards QMS Grading Non-food % monitored and acted upon by our in the pet industry expert in-house pet team who ensure Compliant, no critical issues identied Only minor issues to address procedures are followed and standards No outstanding issues, best in class maintained consistently across all our 68% 100% stores.
Our pet team can also call on the of suppliers in compliance with our testing policy specialist knowledge of internationally 45% respected consultants.
Pets are our passion as well as our 29% 26% 25% business.
It is the love of pets that creates Ensuring the quality of our products 7% the unique bond between our business, our Pets at Home is the only UK pet retailer to colleagues and our customers, and we have Non-food Non-food have a dedicated sourcing office in the Far worked consistently over the past 25 years, 2015 2016 East.
Working from our regional base in often in partnership with respected animal Hong Kong, which opened in 2012, we welfare organisations, to raise the standards have a team of product technologists who QMS Grading Food % of pet welfare in our stores, through our support our buyers, oversee our suppliers supply chains and for our customers.
100% 100% and monitor production to make sure our strict standards are met.
"In December 2015, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Our audits, which extend to all vendors ""DEFRA"" issued a formal consultation on manufacturing Pets at Home branded and its proposals to review animal establishment private branded products, are designed to licensing in England."
The proposals would ensure compliance with our Ethical Trading update and consolidate the animal licensing Policy and cover labour practices and system into a single piece of legislation, working conditions, hours of work and simplify the administrative process and Food Food wages, on site accommodation, health reflect up-to-date knowledge on animal 2015 2016 & safety, environment and supply chain health and welfare.
We welcome this review management.
They are equally applicable to and have provided a detailed response to home workers and subcontractors.
This year E&E Grading Non-food % the consultation, supporting many of the we also ensured 100% of our suppliers are recommendations.
in compliance with our animal testing policy.
Compliant, no critical issues identied Only minor issues to address With stores around the UK, Pets at Home No outstanding issues, best in class We have continued to work with all deals with 300 different licensing authorities, 66% suppliers to implement and improve each with their own approach.
"Because we both quality management systems ""QMS"" 44% seek the highest standards in every store, and ethical and environmental ""E&E"" we have instigated a number of additional 29% 28% 28% grading within their factories."
We have initiatives including an independent annual stopped sourcing from five factories who audit of all our stores.
Each store is audited 5% did not want to work with us on an by SAI Global, the respected international Non-food Non-food improvement plan.
2015 2016 organisation, which also provides the Red Tractor Farm Assurance certification scheme, During the year we reached agreement with to their exacting SAI Excellence Assured Pet a leading US pet retailer to collaborate in E&E Grading Food % Retailer Scheme standard.
Asia across a number of important product 100% 100% categories such as collars and leads, If we are to sell healthy pets we believe creating common testing protocols that they must be bred responsibly so we enable suppliers to reduce costs and also undertake unannounced quarterly thereby create better value for customers.
inspections of all primary pet suppliers and an annual, externally led audit is undertaken by a consultant vet.
Twice a year we commission independent audits by SAI Global to make sure that our suppliers are maintaining the highest standards.
Food Food Most recently we have also introduced 2015 2016 an annual health audit by an RCVS Lab Specialist Vet.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Promoting the highest possible animal welfare standards The welfare of pets is at the heart of everything we do.
We have our own dedicated team of experts who are central to our approach.
Our Head of Pets, a Veterinary Surgeon with over 20 years experience, is supported by two qualified veterinary nurses.
They are responsible for the health and wellbeing of our pets and we rely on their experience to determine which pets we sell and how they should be cared for in stores.
If they have concerns over any aspect of pet welfare they have the autonomy to act immediately in the interest of our pets.
Working alongside the veterinary team is our pet operations team which is responsible for the consistent implementation of policy and achievement of standards in our stores.
This team is led by our Head of Pet Operations, who is an experienced retail manager with almost 20 years experience at Pets at Home.
He is supported by an aquatics operations manager, with more than 20 years experience in freshwater and marine biology, a pet and reptile operations manager, with over 15 years experience in In addition to our own experts, we take pet and reptile welfare, and nine Field Pet advice from external consultants who Managers, who are regionally based and Removal of rabbit from have dedicated their careers to and built provide the vital link with individual stores international reputations in animal welfare.
pet food We believe that up-to-date information During the year we decided to stop buying pet food with flavour variants that include rabbit.
is key to helping customers understand This was due to concerns over the conditions what responsible pet ownership will entail in which the rabbits are kept on farms in and the welfare standards they should Europe.
The rabbit used as an ingredient in provide for their pets.
In addition to the pet food comes from animals that are bred training we provide for all colleagues, for human consumption, and comprises the who are always on hand to advise our material that is not appropriate or wanted for customers, we maintain a full range human food use.
Only at this point does it of up-to-date care leaflets on display become part of the pet food chain.
permanently in our stores and via our Whilst no rabbits are farmed exclusively for website.
Many of these have been use in pet foods, the welfare standards of the produced in conjunction with the RSPCA animals being farmed for use in the human and are co-branded to highlight this food chain fall far short of what we would accept for the rabbits sold as pets in our endorsement of the welfare standards stores.
Because of this we decided that we they promote.
could not continue to buy flavour variants that include rabbit and encouraged the branded pet food manufacturers to follow suit.
Pets at Home Group Plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance Our Pets Environment Our commitment To deliver on our aim to minimise the environmental impact of our operations we have plans in place to minimise our consumption of core resources and maximise efficiency.
2016 Targets & objectives 2016 Achievements 2017 Targets Eliminating waste Eliminating waste sent Retendered waste contract Send zero waste direct sent to landfill to landfill.
and diverted 98% of waste to landfill.
Using less Reduce electricity consumption Achieved a 5.66% reduction Reduce electricity consumption electricity per sq ft by 6% compared despite expansion of in-store per sq ft by 7% compared to to 2012 baseline.
grooming and veterinary practices 2012 baseline.
which are more energy intensive than retail.
Becoming more Achieve a 1% improvement in km per litre remained broadly Increase km travelled per litre fuel efficient km travelled per litre of diesel level at 2.85Kpl.
Driver training of diesel to 2.91kpl, a 2% across the fleet.
Reduce to 128.4 km run per Achieved 127.8 km run per Reduce to 126.5 km 1,000 1,000 cases shipped.
of 1% year-on-year Rethinking our Continue to engage with Developed and published Continue working positively packaging WRAP Waste and Resources Sustainable Packaging Strategy.
Added WRAP logos to a further 100 lines.
Eliminating waste sent to landfill zero waste to landfill within our reach in the Water current financial year.
Against our target of diverting 92% of waste from our retail Having established a baseline for our operations, we achieved 97% in the water consumption, we are reviewing 98% past year.
opportunities that will arise from the of waste being diverted from landfill opening up of the water market to We continue to challenge the use of competition.
From April 2017, we will Having achieved 90% of our retail waste packaging materials across our business be able to choose who supplies our water being diverted from landfill a year ago, we and remain committed to implement and wastewater retail services, giving set a target of diverting 92% as a further WRAPs OPRL recycling information us an opportunity to negotiate the best step towards our aspiration to ultimately on our own brand and private brand package to suit our needs.
The benefits divert 100% of waste from landfill.
of this open market are estimated by the Government to be worth 200 million to During the year our waste contract was Following the implementation in England customers and the UK economy through retendered.
Following this competitive of the 5p charge for single use carrier bags the Open Water programme.
process a new supplier has been on 5 October 2015 we have seen carrier appointed, bringing our aspiration of bag usage reduce by 74%.
"Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Becoming more fuel efficient Reducing our energy usage Creating a well The introduction of the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ""ESOS"" Regulations 23 tractor units controlled, efficiently 2014, which brought into force Article 8 now conform to Euro 6 standards of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive, lit retail environment made it mandatory for all large businesses We monitor fuel efficiency in detail across our We have piloted a Building Energy in the UK to undertake comprehensive delivery fleet and have a programme in place Management System ""BEMS"" in three assessments of energy use and energy to replace the least fuel efficient vehicles in stores to identify the most efficient way to efficiency opportunities at least once the fleet."
All new tractor units entering our maintain an appropriate environment through every four years.
To comply with these delivery fleet conform to Euro 6 emission the day for customers, colleagues and the regulations, qualifying companies are standards with significantly reduced CO 2 pets in our stores in the most energy efficient required to appoint a qualified Lead emissions.
More than half of our fleet of way.
Results from these stores have been Assessor and conduct a number encouraging with a 3540% reduction in the 43 tractor units now conforms to Euro 6 daily energy load.
of assessments: standards and the remainder will convert We have installed LED lighting across the upon replacement by 2019. sales floors and back-stage areas in ten Measure their total energy consumption We have also updated our fleet with 14 stores, including the three stores with BEMS.
for buildings, industrial processes From the results of these trials we have new trailers that have been designed with and transport: decided to instigate a programme that will improved aerodynamic features to improve Identify areas of significant energy convert all stores to LED lighting with BEMS by fuel efficiency.
consumption, accounting for at least 2018.
We have established a new standard 90% of total energy consumption: for the installation of LED light in the We are also undertaking an ongoing Identify cost-effective energy efficiency lightboxes over our fish tanks.
programme of driver training to promote recommendations for areas of significant We now install LED lighting in all new pet both defensive driving and fuel-efficient energy consumption: and villages and aquatics systems.
Report compliance to the Environment to consuming less energy, LED lights emit Agency.
less heat and, in aquatics systems, encourage less algae growth.
Both these In completing our assessment of total energy effects improve pet welfare.
consumption, we identified energy use in External store signage is also being converted buildings in the form of gas and electricity, to LED.
and fleet diesel as the areas with the Impact of Energy Pack Installation potential to achieve significant savings.
18 More detailed analysis showed that whilst 63% of the energy use in a store could be 16 correlated to its size, a significant proportion 14 was driven by other, potentially controllable, 12 factors such as equipment efficiency and the 10 control of the equipment installed.
Through 8 pilot studies in stores, we now have a clear 6 understanding of how we can effect savings.
4 Based on this we have begun to implement 2 a range of energy-saving measures.
0 Time of day Baseline After installation of LED BEMS Pets at Home Group Plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Energy used 00.00 02.00 04.00 06.00 08.00 10.00 12.00 14.00 16.00 18.00 20.00 22.00 23.00 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance Minimising our Carbon footprint summary carbon footprint 9 8 7 10 1.
Gas 4% reduction in electricity consumption 5 2 3.
Electricity 67% We continue to monitor the CO emissions 2 5.
Diesel 3rd Party 6% from our business activities and to 6.
Fuel Used company cars fuel cards 2% challenge areas where reductions can be 7.
Personal business travel Rail 0% made without compromising the welfare 8.
Personal business travel Air 0% of our pets or the comfort and safety of 9.
Personal business travel Car 2% our colleagues and customers.
Electricity T&D losses 5% 4 1 Our electricity consumption over the year has been reduced modestly.
However, the expansion of in-store vet practices Fuel source Tonnes of CO e emissions 2016 2015 2 and Groom Rooms, both of which have Diesel Core Fleet 5,942 5,272 inherently higher energy consumption than Gas 2,091 2,400 our retail environment, have largely offset Red Diesel 314 286 the gains made elsewhere.
To maintain Electricity 31,680 32,424 a suitable temperature for our colleagues, Diesel 3rd Party 2,817 2,806 customers and pets we have also installed Fuel Used company cars fuel cards 1,151 1,012 air-conditioning in 13 stores where there Personal Business Travel Rail 12 19 was none previously.
Measured per Personal Business Travel Air 194 197 square foot of store space, our electricity Personal Business Travel Car 754 769 1 consumption has been reduced by Electricity T&D losses 2,616 2,835 5.34% compared to our 2012 baseline.
47,570 48,021 The rollout of LED lighting and BEMS is expected to make significant reductions in the years ahead.
Pets at Home CO2e footprint has been calculated using the 2016 DEFRA emissions factor and based on a Financial Control approach.
In line with DEFRA methodology, electricity emissions have been split out into scope 2 indirect consumption Total diesel usage increased due to our and scope 3 for transmission and distribution losses.
decision to bring pet deliveries in-house 2015 saw the inclusion of limited scope 3 emissions including outsourced transportation and business to improve the welfare of our pets.
travel car, rail and air, and this scope of reporting has been maintained for FY16.
The contractors who maintain Pets at Home air-conditioning units do not have the systems in place to provide the volume of F-Gas used each year.
Due to the small volumes involved, this is considered to be fide minimis.
During 2016 Pets at Home purchased a small number of Vet referral hospitals, these are currently being transitioned to the Group energy supply contracts as they are currently on separate standalone contracts.
Once these are amalgamated on the Group supply they will be added to the carbon footprint for 2017.
Due to the scale of building relative to the existing estate this is considered to be fide minimis.
To ensure that the above CO e footprint is comparable across different years, 2 the data has been normalised to reflect a standard 52 week year.
1 Refers to the 52 weeks proforma period to 24 March 2016.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59
