48 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Regulation and responsible business Promoting integrity Playtech is committed to designing, developing and providing the worlds best and most responsible gambling and financial trading technology.
As a rapidly growing, global FTSE 250 Company, we recognise that taking into account the needs of all of our stakeholders is critical to creating long-term value and maintaining our position as a leader in regulated markets.
I am very excited about the future of our industry and the growth of Playtech.
Our continued commercial success should not only be about growing our business, but also about the way we do business.
Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 As part of our B2B operations, Playtech Introduction Enabling responsible also runs a poker network.
Within this gambling network, Playtech employs its analytical In 2016, the industry continued to face an increase in stakeholder interest on skills to proactively identify at-risk play Online gambling continues to grow as a and unusual betting patterns that could the important social challenges confronting popular source of entertainment.
Playtech it, including responsible gambling and indicate a responsible gambling and or recognises that many individuals and anti-money laundering issue.
Once the advertising, treating customers fairly, organisations have concerns about the role data protection and anti-money team identifies potential issues, it escalates and impact of online gambling in society.
these issues to licensees to take action.
Playtech is committed Playtech shares these concerns and is to constructive engagement with 2016, escalations to licensees regarding committed to strengthening its approach collusion represented 0.59% of total unique policymakers, regulators and other to responsible gambling.
We are committed stakeholders in order to strengthen accounts on the network.
Escalations to to engaging with governments and society licensees regarding anti-money laundering policy and regulatory frameworks on to ensure that our operations, products these topics.
concerns represented 0.06% of total and services are contributing positively unique accounts on the network.
In 2016, to enabling end users to play safely and a pilot to identify and escalate patterns of Governance and responsibly.
In doing so, we strive to play that indicate problem gambling was conduct business and create products that: engagement implemented and data will be available in 2017.
The Groups Risk Committee is responsible Prevent gambling from being a source for overseeing responsible business and of crime or being used to support crime: In 2017, Playtech will continue to explore ethics commitments and performance.
how to help licensees more effectively More information about the Risk Committee Ensure that gambling is conducted identify and engage with at-risk players is available in the Governance section of in a fair and open way: and as well as developing enhanced tools this report on page 63. to combat fraud and manage risk in Protect under 18s and other vulnerable licensees operations.
In 2016, Playtech enhanced its oversight persons from being harmed or exploited of these matters by appointing Claire Milne by gambling.
Our approach in as the lead Board member responsible for anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, ethics Our approach is supported by our policies B2C operations and social responsibility.
Claire works with and procedures related to responsible Playtech uses a suite of responsible the Chair of the Risk Committee to ensure gambling and responsible advertising gambling tools within its B2C operations.
these matters are adequately represented as well as training for relevant staff.
These include reality checks, time-outs at Board level.
As expectations and regulations evolve, and deposit limits, and we report player Playtech will ensure that its approach to data in accordance with local regulations The Regulatory Affairs and Compliance responsible gambling is aligned to reflect wherever we operate.
During 2016, function executes the day-to-day strategy these changes.
This is an evergreen Playtech introduced enhanced processes on ethics, social responsibility, compliance process and strengthening our approach to improve detection of harmful play and and regulatory issues.
In 2016, the team to responsible gambling in both our B2B strengthen early intervention with players.
expanded and strengthened its capacity and B2C operations is a key priority.
Playtech recognises that our processes with five new hires.
The team works with can be further improved and potentially the functional and divisional leadership to automated.
We are exploring the use of Our approach in ensure that these issues are embedded in data analytics to identify and engage with B2B operations processes and operations across Playtech.
at-risk players to this effect.
Playtechs Information Management Solution IMS provides licensees with the Externally, Playtech engaged with gambling latest responsible gambling tools.
The IMS industry peers, regulators and stakeholders includes controls and can be configured throughout 2016, both through one-on-one to ensure fair play through fraud-detection engagement as well as through industry services and to facilitate responsible associations and initiatives.
We are gambling tools for players, including: active participants in, and supporters of, the Remote Gambling Association Deposit and bet limits: RGA, International Masters of Gaming Law IMGL, International Association of Gaming Reality checks: Regulators IAGR, International Association of Gaming Advisors IAGA, the UK National Session time limits: and Online Self-Exclusion Scheme NOSES, the Gambling Anti-Money Laundering Self-exclusion tools.
Group GAMLG and the Institute for Business Ethics.
50 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Regulation and responsible business continued In 2016, there was a significant increase in Minimising integrity risk Contributing to the the uptake of responsible gambling tools, including self-exclusion.
local economy Playtech takes a zero tolerance approach to bribery, corruption and Playtech employs over 5,000 people in 17 money laundering.
During 2016, Playtech countries: one of the key ways that Playtech continued to strengthen its policies and Use of responsible creates economic value in its markets of procedures on anti-bribery and corruption operation is through local tax payments and gambling tools B2C and anti-money laundering and deployed employment of individuals.
The Group is additional training for its staff through a mix committed to meeting its legal and ethical Proportion of customers of face to face and virtual learning modules.
obligations to pay tax while also fulfilling its self-excluding commitment to shareholders to maximise Playtech also refreshed its anti-money 2016 value through tax efficient management.
laundering policy and operational 14.7% Playtech recognises that tax affairs procedures, including its know your including fairness and transparency are 2015 customer KYC procedures.
Furthermore, topics of significant interest to governments 4.4% the Group joined the Gambling Antiand society.
Furthermore, tax policy and Money Laundering Group, an industry regulatory requirements for companies wide initiative to combat money Proportion of customers particularly in the e-commerce arena laundering in the gambling sector.
using RG tools are developing and changing.
As a result, Playtech is committed to managing its 2016 In addition, the Compliance function added approach in the ever-evolving e-commerce 9.8% resources dedicated to compliance on environment in order to ensure it aligns 2015 these topics and the Financials division with the changing nature of tax regimes 3.3% introduced a new code of conduct and in the regions and markets of operation.
new controls with regards to anti-bribery Number of self-exclusions as a percentage and corruption.
of total unique customers within Playtechs Tax governance and B2C operations in the UK.
RG tools comprise reality checks, In 2017 Playtech will continue to enhance responsibilities time-outs and deposit limits.
and strengthen the quality of AML and The tax strategy of the Playtech Group is ABC training provided to all colleagues.
governed by the Board of Directors and We will also review and update our monitored by the Audit Committee.
The th policies and procedures in light of the 4 Audit Committee reviews the tax strategy Partnership and Anti-Money Laundering Directive AMLD, annually as part of its considerations in collaboration strengthen risk assessment models and connection with the audited financial reflect changes in licensing and regulatory statements.
We believe that no one company alone requirements.
can tackle the root causes and impacts of The Chief Financial Officer CFO is problem gambling in society.
This is why responsible for developing and managing we collaborate, support and partner with Safeguarding data the Groups tax strategy.
The CFO is many organisations whose aim is to support We recognise that the trust of our supported by the Treasury, Finance and responsible gambling, including: licensees, customers and employees is Accounting functions: comprising qualified dependent upon our ability to safeguard accountants in multiple jurisdictions.
Participating in and shaping the data.
In 2016, Playtech appointed a new The CFO and Treasury function are also development of the National Online SelfData Protection Officer DPO who will work assisted by external advisers on a countryExclusion System in the UK: closely with the Chief Security Officer CSO by-country basis.
The Groups external tax and Risk Committee to strengthen our advisers are selected based upon their Collaborating with GamCare to support defences against cybercrime and comply reputation, knowledge and expertise in efforts to continuously improve with future regulatory changes, including local markets, together with their expertise operational responsible gambling the EU General Data Protection Regulation.
activity: and We continue to invest in the security of our systems and processes to meet the needs The CFO and the Finance function Sponsoring 2016 GambleAwares annual of our business customers.
A continual constructively engage with tax authorities Harm Minimisation Conference as well assessment of information security risks in the markets where the Group operates.
as providing financial support for their has resulted in the implementation of activities and research.
multiple layers of assurance and audit activities, leading to an enhancement of Approach to tax The Playtech Groups tax policy is our security controls.
As a result, the likelihood of unauthorised access and based upon the following principles: the impact of any successful attack have both been reduced.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 We manage our tax affairs in line with the The corporate tax charge for the year Managing our Groups governance framework and was 6.3 million 2015: 5.6 million, tax strategy: and our effective tax rate was 3% 2015: environmental footprint 4%.
In addition to the corporate tax, the As a predominantly online gaming software We act responsibly with respect tax charge for gaming taxes on the Groups supplier, our environmental footprint is to our tax obligations: white-label operations is 6.6 million.
limited compared to that of our peers Please refer to page 123, Note 8 for with industrial operations.
Our biggest We comply with tax requirements and additional information.
environmental impacts are caused by the disclosure obligations in accordance energy we consume in our offices and with local applicable regulations: datacentres.
Our energy usage creates Our people greenhouse gas GHG emissions which We strive to manage an efficient tax With more than 5,000 people in 17 in turn contribute to climate change.
We environment that is informed by: different countries, we rely on diverse recognise that climate change is one of backgrounds, cultures and nationalities the biggest challenges facing society, and The numerous jurisdictions where to remain successful and serve a wide we are committed to reducing our carbon we operate: and range of international operators.
We footprint by being as efficient as we can.
embrace different cultures, genders, The Groups employee footprint, which ethnicities, social backgrounds and In 2017, we will review opportunities to is based on local expertise and talent beliefs in the workplace.
In 2017, Playtech reduce our carbon footprint, identifying pools in those markets: will review its approach to diversity and energy hotspots within our business.
As we are growing fast and through inclusion with a focus on increasing female We conduct intra-group transactions representation at senior levels within the acquisitions, our carbon reduction transfer pricing on an independent, ambitions are likely to be relative rather organisation.
Playtech is also committed than absolute.
We will continue to arms length basis: and to upholding the principles embodied in strengthen our reporting systems, data the Universal Declaration of Human Rights quality and approach to data collection We engage constructively with and the International Labour Organizations andanalysis.
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at work.
In 2016, Playtech As a global company, Playtech operates in codified its commitment to human rights many markets.
Playtech selects the location and combatting modern slavery and will of its operations based on commercial and continue to review its risks associated operational factors, that extend well beyond with these issues.
We will also update our tax, including: a widely available pool of statement on combatting modern slavery technical talent, the linguistic capabilities and take actions to further embed human in these jurisdictions, the location of rights policies into our procurement and our licensees, labour and operational HR processes in 2017.
emissions 2016 The Playtech Group is headquartered in the Gender diversity Isle of Man, where it is centrally managed Energy 13,213,044 on 31 December 2016 and controlled.
This location was chosen consumption kWh as a jurisdiction in which to develop the head office function due to shareholders Employees Scope 1 GHG 342 tonnes benefitting from an Isle of Man company emissions gas CO e 2 Men falling under the remit of the City Code 3,039 60.2% Scope 2 GHG on Takeovers and Mergers.
Women emissions 7,025 tonnes 2,007 39.8% electricity CO e 2 Playtech has offices in 17 countries with the majority of its development and Total GHG emissions 7,367 tonnes technical operations in the Ukraine, Estonia, Senior managers scope 1 and scope 2 CO e 2 Latvia and Bulgaria.
These locations are Men well known for being among the best CO e intensity 1.46 tonnes 88.5% 2 technology hubs with a large population CO e employee 2 Women of well educated, technical experts.
Our 11.5% Absolute data is an estimate based on presence in some markets, such as Austria 91% actual data coverage by headcount.
and Australia, is a result of acquisitions.
In Using the Department for Environment, each of these locations, our payments to Directors Food & Rural Affairs DEFRA 2016 gas conversion factor CO e. government include corporate tax, local 2 Men Using the DEFRA 2016 electricity employment tax, sales tax, property tax, 85.7% conversion factor CO e for all UK locations 2 licensing fees, duties and taxes.
and the latest International Energy Agency Women IEA conversion factors for all non-UK 14.3% sites CO. 2 52 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Regulation and responsible business continued Contributing to our local communities We encourage our employees to play an active role in their communities.
Many contribute time, skills, in-kind and volunteering services and financial support to charitable organisations and causes.
The following are just a few stories about how employees are making a difference in their communities.
Inspiring the next generation of Using skills based volunteering to game for good female IT professionals in Estonia Playtechs founding country For the last four years, Daniel Fairs, a Playtech games artist, has volunteered his gaming skills to raise funds for the charity Playtech Estonia has a mission to share knowledge, SpecialEffect.
SpecialEffect designs and produces games and skills and expertise to encourage and equip more games equipment for people who previously were unable to play women to enter the technology industry.
In 2016 the due to their disabilities or special needs.
A large portion of the team in Estonia engaged in a variety of activities and money raised has gone to designing custom software and hardware events, including graduate technology conferences, for specific needs such as developing a one-button control system mentoring and hosting panels & discussions to for severely restricted wheelchair users, a one-handed control for encourage more women and girls to enter the amputee war veterans and eye recognition software for sufferers of IT sector.
In November 2016, Playtech Estonia locked-in syndrome in order for them to play games using their eyes.
sponsored the Tech Sisters community which organises a series of hands-on technology-focused workshops and regular networking events.
These are From my first Commodore 64 to a Sega Mega available to anyone of any level of IT expertise and Drive and then an Xbox to a more sophisticated experience, and focus on bringing more diversity into PC, games have been such an important part the field of IT or, in the words of one of our Estonian of my life that if I can help someone with a colleagues, to encourage women and girls of all ages to take a leap into this wonderful world.
The disability who cant play then Im always happy team will continue to inspire and encourage, nurture to give up some of my spare time to do that.
and grow new female talent not just in Playtech but across the country.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 YoYo Games & Humble Bundle: partnering to deliver social and commercial value YoYo Games partnered with Humble Bundle to use specialist gaming Playtechs support was instrumental in Partnering with GamCare knowledge and experience to helping GamCare extend its pilot work provide consumers with affordable to support the UKs first in Bristol and the South West, which downloadable content whilst also youth-targeted initiative ultimately supported 3,000 young raising over half a million pounds people and a further 150 frontline on problem gambling towards worthy causes.
The extension to a Bundle bundles games and books third year helped GamCare reach over Since 2013, Playtech has supported as part of a cheaper time-set bundle 1,000 additional young people and train GamCares Youth Outreach Programme.
and at a price determined by the 50 additional professionals directly.
The long-term aim of the programme is purchaser, with a proportion of the to bring about a reduction in gamblingcost going to humanitarian causes.
related harm in young people.
3,000 The money raised through this Young people supported partnership has been allocated to The programme pilot included delivering by the programme the humanitarian-aid organisation, awareness workshops to young people Mdecins Sans Frontires Doctors in schools, colleges and Pupil Referral Without Borders MSF as well as 150 Units across Bristol and the South other charities.
Frontline professionals who work West of the UK, as well as one-to-one with vulnerable young people have screening and outreach services to been supported by the programme those affected by their own or someone elses gambling.
113 children and young people were screened during the pilot, and a total of 53 young people received Feedback during the pilot phase tailored help and support as a result of from young people and professionals this.
This was the first youth-targeted initiative around problem gambling This has helped me in the UK.
understand gambling better and it will help Frontline professionals were also trained to deliver workshops, as well as how to me in the future.
identify warning signs of problematic gambling and how to intervene Most helpful to learn what sensitively.
This laid the foundation for practical abilities to take the next phase of work, to develop further youth hubs in the North West away and use with young Liverpool and Manchester, Birmingham people and also identifying and London.
This includes developing signs of a problem gambler.
materials to deliver sessions to young people and youth professionals, as well as upskilling counsellors to treat young people should they need one-to-one help and support.
54 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Contents Board of Directors 56 Chairmans introduction to governance 58 Directors governance report 59 Audit Committee report 67 Remuneration report annual statement 70 Remuneration policy report 72 Annual report on remuneration 78 Directors report 86
