AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REVIEW OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE evaluating the existence and recoverability of metal inventories.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK AND ACTIVITIES EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS AND AUDIT QUALITY The Committee examined the price assumptions used by The Company aims to ensure that all its activities are adequately The management structure of the Group and internal policies and The Audit and Risk Committee has adopted a formal framework management as well as unit costs and other internal assumptions controlled to mitigate risk and support the achievement of its procedures are aimed at maintaining a robust control framework in its review of the effectiveness of the external audit process and used in determining the net realisable value of unfinished goods objectives while avoiding the creation of excessive bureaucracy.
within the Group which will result in the achievement of strategic audit quality which focuses on the following areas: within metal inventories ore and concentrate stockpiles : The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than objectives within the set risk tolerance levels.
completely eliminate risk and to achieve the Companys business the audit partners, with particular focus on the lead audit evaluating the recoverability of exploration and development objectives whilst bringing residual risk to an acceptable level, but This framework includes: engagement partner.
2016 was the first full year that the Company assets.
The Committee evaluated managements approach to can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against had worked with the new audit partner, following the previous determine whether the existing exploration and development an appropriate tone set from the top Board level, aimed at material misstatement or loss.
partner being rotated off in 2015: assets are likely to generate future economic benefits and building the appropriate control environment: whether any indicators of impairment had been identified: the audit team: a proper risk identification and management system In conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of risk review of tax exposures.
The Committee evaluated managements for more detail please refer to pages 64-69 : management and internal control including financial, operating and planning and scope of the audit and identification of areas assessment of various tax risks and appropriateness of provisions compliance controls, the Board considers the key findings from the of audit risk: a strict division of responsibilities and adequate delegation made in the financial statements, where applicable: ongoing monitoring and reporting processes, management of authority: execution of the audit: assertions and independent assurance reports.
review of accounting for acquisitions of Kapan and Komar made specific control activities implemented at all levels of the Group: the role of management in an effective audit process: during the year and the relevant purchase price allocation: and The Board also takes account of material changes and trends communications by the auditor with the Audit and internal controls and the risk of misstatement: in the risk profile and considers whether the control system, a periodic review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
Risk Committee, and how the auditor supports the work the Committee reviewed reporting from internal audit including reporting, adequately supports the Board in achieving of the Audit and Risk Committee: in respect of its audit plan and discussed all significant findings: its risk management objectives.
The governance framework reflects the specific structure and how the audit contributes insights and adds value: and reviewing the treasury policy and authorities management of the Group, where authority and control are of various management levels as part of the annual During the course of the year, the Board considered the Groups delegated by the Board to different levels, from top management to the independence and objectivity of the audit firm and the quality deep dive exercise: responsiveness to changes within its business environment.
The the managers of the Groups operating entities and then downward of the formal audit report to shareholders.
Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing process, which has been to business and project managers as appropriate.
review of the capital structure decisions and dividend policy: and operational during the year, and up to the date of approval of the An auditor assessment is completed annually by each member of reviewing the longer-term viability statement.
Annual Report, for identifying, evaluating and managing the Within this framework, authority is delegated within clearly the Audit and Risk Committee and by the CFO.
Feedback is also significant risks faced by the Group.
prescribed limits and decisions are escalated where either project sought from the Group CEO, other members of the finance team, The Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee makes himself available size or risk profile require a higher level of authority.
divisional management and the head of internal audit.
to major institutional shareholders annually to discuss the INTERNAL AUDIT Companys annual reporting to shareholders as part of the The internal audit function supports this aim by providing the In addition to controls operating in specific areas production, The assessment tool adopted is comprehensive and includes Companys investor days.
He is also available for one-on-one Directors, through the Audit and Risk Committee, with an exploration, construction, procurement, the control framework also detailed questions which are completed by way of a formal meetings with key shareholders at their request.
objective evaluation of the Companys and the Groups governance includes a set of common procedures for financial accounting, questionnaire every three years, while the key areas are reviewed framework.
The internal audit function also aims to raise levels reporting and budgeting see details on the next page.
The feedback from this process is considered by the The re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external auditor of understanding and awareness of risk and control throughout Audit and Risk Committee, and is provided both to the auditor is reviewed annually by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have and to management.
Action plans arising are also reviewed by was appointed auditor in 2011, with Deloitte CIS having been auditor been or are being taken to remedy any failings or weaknesses in the the Committee.
of JSC Polymetal since the last tendering process in 2007.
The The head of internal audit reports to the Group CEO and, through Groups system of internal controls.
This has involved considering Group has a policy of tendering the external audit at least every the Audit and Risk Committee, to the Board of Directors.
Where the matters reported to it and developing plans and programmes The effectiveness of management in the external audit process ten years.
The Committees assessment of the external auditors relevant, the internal audit function will additionally report its findings that it considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
Based is assessed principally in relation to the timely identification and performance and independence underpins its recommendation to to members of the Groups executive management.
on the results of the review of risk management and internal resolution of areas of accounting judgement, the quality and the Board to propose to shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte control activities undertaken by the Board and the Audit and Risk timeliness of papers analysing those judgements, managements LLP as auditor until the conclusion of the AGM in 2018.
Resolutions The internal audit functions annual work plan is designed to focus Committee, the Board considers that the risk management and approach to the value of the independent audit, the booking of audit to authorise the Board to re-appoint and determine the auditors on matters arising from the operational risk matrix and is approved internal control systems are in accordance with the relevant adjustments arising if any and the timely provision of draft public remuneration will be proposed at the AGM on 16 May 2017. by the Audit and Risk Committee in advance.
principles and provisions of the UK Code and other documents for review by the auditor and the Audit and applicable guidance.
We intend to tender our external audit in 2020 for the 2021 audit, The internal audit function uses an annual self-certification process, which will coincide with the completion of the five-year term of our which requires managers throughout the Group to personally FINANCIAL REPORTING SYSTEMS Every three years, the Audit and Risk Committee requests that a current audit partner.
At that point Deloitte LLP will also have been confirm the testing of internal controls and compliance with Group The quality of financial accounting and reporting is ensured partner, independent of the audit engagement team, discusses our auditor for 10 years, following our listing on the London Stock policies within their business or function and the steps taken to through a set of control procedures in the following areas: the quality of the external audit process with the Audit and Risk Exchange.
It is our intention that Deloitte will be invited to participate address actual or potential issues that are identified.
In addition accounting methodology, preliminary review of new transactions, Committee Chair and the CFO using this evaluation framework.
in this tender process, along with other appropriately qualified to self-certification, the internal audit function performs external documentation, accounting techniques and financial closing The most recent comprehensive audit quality evaluation was international audit firms.
The Company is in compliance with the certification, the most recent of which took place in February 2016. procedures.
Accounting policies are developed centrally for each performed in March 2017. provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies of the Groups subsidiaries and are adapted for the specifics Market Investigation Order 2014.
Management provides a timely response to issues raised of each entity and Group-wide policies.
Employees responsible for FOCUS DURING 2016 by internal audit.
Where possible, the issues are resolved accounting and reporting functions have powers to review upcoming During this year, the Audit and Risk Committee focused on: The Board considers that the Audit and Risk Committee complies within one reporting period.
transactions and propose adjustments, where necessary, to ensure evaluating the recoverability of goodwill and operating and with the requirements of the UK Code and Guidance on Risk proper accounting and tax treatments.
The use of a centralised development assets.
The Committee examined the potential Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system in all major Group indicators of impairment or impairment reversal, where Business Reporting.
companies ensures unification of the business and accounting appropriate for each of the cash-generating units CGU and processes.
The Group implements a multi-level set of controls over the life-of-mine financial models used for assessing the fair value financial and accounting data recorded in the system.
These less costs to sell of the individual cash-generating units tested controls involve the accounting department of each subsidiary, for impairment.
The Committee examined and challenged the senior management of the subsidiary and controls at the relevant commodity price, discount rate and exchange rate assumptions headquarters level.
In addition, the accounting and reporting data used by management in its impairment tests: are regularly audited by internal and external auditors.
80 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 81 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION REPORT PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL OF CAPITAL The Board attaches the utmost importance to this policy and AND CURRENT EXPENDITURES applies a zero-tolerance approach to acts of bribery and corruption IN OUR REMUNERATION POLICY WE ARE AIMING The Group prepares annual operating and capital expenditure by any of the Groups employees or by business partners working AT FULL COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATORY AND budgets based on its current and strategic goals and objectives.
The policy prohibits the payment, offer In addition to periodic control of actual versus budgeted financial or authorisation of bribes, the receipt or acceptance of a bribe, MARKET REQUIREMENTS IN OUR COUNTRIES performance, a procedure of ongoing control and authorisation or the payment, offer or promise to pay any facilitating payments.
OF OPERATION INCLUDING THE LONDON STOCK of expenses is in place.
The current system of pre-approval of Any breach of this policy is regarded as a serious matter by the significant transactions, along with accounting procedures in the Company and is likely to result in disciplinary action.
EXCHANGE PREMIUM LISTING, AS WELL AS ERP system, achieves a level of control over the amount and CURRENT INTERNATIONAL BEST PRACTICE.
As part of implementation of internal procedures to comply with the UK Bribery Act, the Group has a formalised whistle-blowing policy TREASURY OPERATIONS which defines the processes in place for staff to communicate, in The Group operates a centralised treasury function, which confidence, concerns about possible improprieties, unethical or is responsible for payments on behalf of all operating subsidiaries of illegal activities and ensures that arrangements are in place for the the Group.
Use of such a centralised system achieves the best level independent investigation of such matters.
of control over the payments function without compromising the speed and reliability of payments.
The Company affirms that it has not denied any personnel access to the Audit and Risk Committee and that it has provided protection All transactions with banks on accounts maintenance, deposits and to whistle-blowers from adverse personnel action.
Dear Shareholders borrowings and foreign currency transactions are also performed at In addition, the Company has met increasingly demanding best relevant headquarters level in compliance with the treasury policy The Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Remuneration practice requirements of London Main Board listed companies in Committees Policy and Report for 2016 which provides context approved by the Board.
Whistle-Blowing Policy are available on the Companys website: terms of reporting as well as environmental, social and governance www.
and rationale for our changes to senior executives remuneration.
Some 70 separate KPI metrics are included in the CONTROLS OVER IT SYSTEMS USED IN variable part of the remuneration of our people best placed to make FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING Over the past year, the Remuneration Committee reassessed the a difference in these areas.
Polymetal is now part of the FTSE4Good existing Remuneration Policy ahead of putting it to a new binding The Group uses a 1C:Enterprise 8 ERP system for the automation of and STOXX Global ESG Leaders indices.
These include various business tasks shareholder vote at the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Committee reviewed all aspects of the existing policy and its of the economic and management functions, such as management Our senior management team is composed of highly talented and accounting, business accounting, HR management, supplier implementation while taking into account relevant regulatory committed professionals who have collectively and individually Jonathan Best frameworks, generally accepted best market practice and recent relationship management SRM and material requirements planning delivered an outstanding operating and financial performance Chair, Audit and Risk Committee MRP.
The Group also uses the ERP system for budgeting, developments impacting remuneration matters in the UK and in our under complex and difficult market conditions.
We aim to further countries of operation.
Our aim was to ensure remuneration remains accounting, HR record-keeping and payroll, supply chain ensure the cohesion and retention of the team as well as individual management, operational reporting and procurement.
aligned with our key corporate goals and shareholders expectations succession when required.
Our objective is to be in a position to and that it motivates and compensates senior management fairly for offer competitive remuneration packages while keeping bonus The Group operates an IT management framework based on COBIT their contribution to the business.
targets stretched and Performance Share Plan PSP vesting Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology, which tied to leading absolute and relative Total Shareholder provides a complete set of high-level requirements to be considered The Committee and the Board concluded that it is in the interest Return TSR performance.
of the Company and of all its stakeholders, including shareholders, for effective control of each IT process.
to keep the Remuneration Policy largely unchanged as it remains Shareholders approval is requested for the revised fully aligned with the Companys strategy, commercial objectives UK BRIBERY ACT 2010 Remuneration Policy.
and culture including our strong focus on creating sustainable The Company and its Directors are committed to ensuring shareholder value.
adherence to the highest legal and ethical standards.
This is REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES AND STRATEGY reflected in every aspect of the way the Group operates.
Bribery The existing Companys Remuneration Policy was introduced The only significant change to report is the strategic decision to is a criminal offence in the countries in which the Group operates.
following approval by a shareholders binding vote at the 2014 AGM increase what was a structurally low base salary for our senior Corrupt acts expose the Group and its employees to the risk of with 99.77% of votes cast in favour and with the policy to be in force management team, which has remained stable since our 2011 prosecution, fines and imprisonment, as well as endangering the for three years.
It will now be put to a new binding vote at the London IPO.
The low level, aggravated by the recent Rouble Companys reputation.
The Group has a Code of Conduct in place, 2017 AGM.
depreciation, is no longer competitive, both in the CIS and which refers to its Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy.
Furthermore, it is not in line with the current scope Our Remuneration Policy has its foundations in the Companys of the senior executive role at Polymetal and does not take into The policy extends across all of the Groups business dealings in all strategy.
From an industry perspective we aim to develop and consideration the outstanding performance of the team and of countries and territories in which the Group operates and applies operate in a safe and sustainable manner across high grade mines the Company.
to Directors, managers and all employees of the Group, as well as in selected geographies within the CIS, and from the financial relevant business partners and other relevant individuals perspective, we want to generate free cash flows to be in a position In 2016, Polymetal maintained its track record of solid operational and entities.
to pay substantial and sustainable dividends.
In practice this delivery, meeting our increased production guidance for the fifth translates into stringent cost control practices as well as strict consecutive year.
We have made considerable progress on our capital and project management discipline throughout the Group.
long-term growth plans with the launch of Svetloye, successful integration of the newly acquired Kapan and Komar operations, It is also aligned with our employment policy that calls for and advancing the joint venture on Nezhda.
Over the past couple responsible behaviour and personal accountability, as well as a of years, the management team has been able to further consolidate commitment to best practice in all matters and at all levels of the and improve the performance of existing assets and increase the organisation.
Our general approach is to motivate and compensate resource base through brownfield exploration and acquisitions.
This employees fairly and competitively for their contribution to the has led to good free cash flow generation as reflected in significant business and to promote an open, positive and co-operative attitude dividends paid to our shareholders.
As at year end, Polymetal had in the workplace.
delivered a 4.1% dividend yield on a five-year average basis.
82 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 83 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In our Remuneration Policy we are aiming at full compliance with With the Russian mining sector recovering, we expect there to be Following these conclusions and in view of the development of the MOVING FORWARD regulatory and market requirements in our countries of operation increased competition for mining personnel starting with senior Company and context outlined above, we believe that the current The Board and the Remuneration Committee are unanimous in including the London Stock Exchange premium listing, as well as management with a proven operating track record.
At senior levels, base salary levels for top management pose a significant risk proposing continuity in the Remuneration Policy and structure and in current international best practice.
although not at the average employee level, our compensation to the Companys ability to retain key personnel and, consequently, addressing a significant gap in roles scope and peers remuneration packages compare poorly with international peers.
This is mirrored to the sustainability of its business model and strong performance.
We believe that this is in the best interest of In making remuneration decisions, the Committee considers both by Russian gold mining peers of similar and even smaller size.
shareholders and that this measure will continue both to motivate the performance of the Company and the current environment Based on the above, the Committee proposes, as a change to and retain the executive team, whose quality is well supported by surrounding executive pay, where there is a clear expectation of In an increasingly complex geopolitical environment, the Company policy, to increase the Group CEOs salary in Roubles by 25% in the historic track record of delivering on rolling-out a sustainable shareholder alignment and appropriate pay for performance.
faces growing strategic, operational and financial challenges.
2017, effective from 1 April 2017, and by up to 10 percentage points business model and generating superior shareholder returns.
This in turn places a greater burden on our senior management above the Russian domestic inflation rate in both 2018 and 2019 REMUNERATION STRUCTURE in terms of broadened scope and responsibility as the Company currently forecasted at 4-6% p. a..
The Committee will carefully On behalf of the Committee and of the Board, I continue to welcome Alignment with our corporate strategy is taken into consideration grows internally and expands internationally, and we are mindful review whether these increases remain appropriate in 2018 and feedback from shareholders and look forward to receiving your in all components of our remuneration structure which is based that their remuneration packages need to reflect this.
2019 based on the market conditions, exchange rates and the support at the AGM.
on a healthy balance between fixed and variable pay, use of KPIs Companys results or other relevant considerations, and suspend tailored to key strategic objectives as updated on an annual basis, KEY COMMITTEE DECISIONS them if they are not justified.
as well as strict PSP vesting conditions.
During 2016, we thoroughly reviewed our Remuneration Policy against our strategy, market adjustments and, in the light of ongoing This cumulative increase for the three years would result in a Group The remuneration of Mr Nesis, Group CEO and the only executive regulatory requirements, best corporate governance practice and CEO base salary of US$561,000 in 2019 based on the average Director on the Board, and of all senior management and key investors views.
We benchmarked our Directors and senior exchange rate over the period 60 RUB US$.
This resulting salary Christine Coignard employees includes a simple and clearly defined KPI-component, executives total remuneration structure and quantum against level will still be below the current median of UK-listed peers Chair, Remuneration Committee derived from top-level goals and adjusted for individual representative peer groups, and considered the growing assuming no increase amongst peers and will represent responsibilities and performance, encompassing operating complexities within the business and senior management 2.8% annualised increase compared with his 2012 base salary metrics that our management can influence.
We also obtained advice in respect of the compliance in US Dollars.
It is also worth noting that, since 2011, the average of our remuneration structure, corporate governance relating employee compensation increase for the general workforce has Following several fatalities at our mines, we introduced a new bonus to remuneration and the adequacy of existing terms of reference been equivalent to 14% p. a. in Rouble terms, compared with an calculation system for senior managers and mine management that in relation to best practices.
average base salary increase in Rouble terms of 7% p. a. for the has much more focus on health and safety KPIs.
This reflects the Group CEO.
zero tolerance of fatalities at our operations by both the Board and After careful consideration, the Committee arrived at the following senior management.
conclusions concerning the structure of the Remuneration Policy: Non-executive Director fees are reviewed, but not necessarily increased, on an annual basis.
Any increase in non-executive The general structure of the Directors remuneration policy has Senior management interests are aligned with those of our Directors fees will normally be in line with UK inflation and market successfully achieved our top corporate goals as set out above.
shareholders and the Companys long-term objectives.
50% of levels for similar roles in UK listed entities, except where a change The drivers of variable pay KPIs are stretching, well aligned with bonuses awarded each year to the Group CEO and the senior in the scope of the role occurs.
Current fee levels are set out in the the Companys strategic objectives and cascade throughout the management team are deferred into shares in the Company through Annual Report on Remuneration.
organisation in a way which ensures our employees pay is aligned the Deferred Share Award DSA, which is released in equal to Polymetals performance and to the wider policy principles.
The Performance Share Plan provides CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND APPROACH an additional focus for key employees of the Group on delivering TO DISCLOSURE The policy is consistent with UK market and governance good superior Total Shareholder Return.
The first normal vest under the As a FTSE 250 company listed on the London Stock Exchange, practice including, but not limited to, in the following aspects: PSP will take place no earlier than April 2018, provided that vesting we comply with the strictest of corporate governance requirements.
Performance-related pay makes up a significant proportion criteria are met.
We remain committed to full adherence to all regulatory of the remuneration package, with an appropriate balance requirements and best practice as reflected in our remuneration between reward for short-and long-term performance: In terms of pension, the Company provides the same pension policy, decisions, disclosure practices and requests for contribution to all its employees including all senior management, 50% of the bonus is deferred into shares over a period shareholders votes.
corresponding to contributions to the mandatory pension fund of its of three years and clawback and malus provisions apply countries of operations as required by law.
to the unvested awards DSA plan : Following a request by many institutional investors and governance bodies, we are disclosing this years retrospective incentive targets A vesting period of four years under the Performance Share when reporting the Group CEOs remuneration.
This helps provide CONTEXT TO THE COMMITTEES DECISIONS Plan, over which clawback and malus conditions apply a clearer picture of the relationship between the Companys ON THE REMUNERATION POLICY to the unvested awards, with an additional post-vest holding performance and executive remuneration.
The Russian economic environment has been through a period period of one year ensures that management focus on the of volatility since the Companys listing in October 2011.
There long-term interest of the Company and of its stakeholders: In line with our active engagement in a dialogue with our has been a rapid devaluation of the Russian Rouble since 2014 The executive Director owns a shareholding equal shareholders and with proxy advisers, we undertook an extensive cumulatively the US$ RUB exchange rate declined by 56% during to 7,848% of his base salary, far exceeding minimum consultation exercise regarding proposed changes to the application 2011-2016 while the average annual rate of inflation was 8.1% per shareholding requirements: of our Remuneration Policy described above, ahead of the 2017 annum.
This has resulted in a material reduction in the US Dollar AGM vote.
value of Rouble-denominated packages offered to our top Stringent PSP vesting conditions based on above median management, while the industry trends worldwide and in the relative TSR with an underpin based on positive absolute CIS have been a flat or increasing base pay in US Dollar terms.
shareholder return, are therefore fully aligned with shareholder Consequentially, the packages offered by Polymetal are now value creation: and significantly lower than in comparable companies, including Meaningful weight of sustainability metrics in the KPIs, with the both UK and Russian-listed sector peers, with the base salaries CEOs component purposefully focused on health and safety.
of the Group CEO and senior management well below that of the rest of the market at c. 20% below lower quartile.
84 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 85 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY ELEMENT AND PERFORMANCE PURPOSE LINK METRICS USED AND 1.
SUMMARY TABLE TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERIOD APPLICABLE The Committee will be requesting shareholder approval of the following Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 16 May 2017 to cover a period of three years.
The Policy will apply from the date of approval.
No changes to the previous policy have been made, other than where indicated.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Deferred Share 50% of the annual bonus earned is Not applicable.
Entitlement to this deferred Awards plan DSA paid in cash and the remaining 50% component is subject to ELEMENT AND PERFORMANCE is compulsorily deferred into shares, continued employment over the PURPOSE LINK METRICS USED AND Deferral to which are released annually to the deferral period.
TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERIOD APPLICABLE encourage retention employee over the next three years and alignment In normal circumstances, DSAs Executive Director Group CEO in equal instalments.
will continue until the normal time Clawback and malus provisions of vesting upon cessation of Base salary The Committee reviews base salary As a change to policy, the CEOs Not applicable.
apply for the unvested portion of the employment due to death, injury, on an annual basis, taking into salary will be increased in Roubles To attract and DSA: the Remuneration Committee ill-health, disability, redundancy, account general economic and by 25% in 2017, effective from retain high-calibre may, at any time up to and including retirement, or any other market conditions, underlying Group 1 April 2017, and by up to executives.
vesting, reduce the number of circumstance which the Committee performance, the level of increases 10 percentage points above the shares that vest, should it consider determines Good Leaver made across the Group as a whole, Russian domestic inflation rate that a material misstatement, Circumstances.
Alternatively, the the remuneration of executives in in both 2018 and 2019 currently misconduct and or a failure Board may determine that DSAs similar positions in FTSE and global forecasted at 4-6% p. a..
The of risk management occurs.
In both mining peers, and individual Committee will carefully review circumstances there would be no performance when setting base whether these increases remain Dividend equivalents will be received pro-rating of the DSAs for the time salary for the following year.
appropriate in 2018 and 2019 on vested shares, reflecting the value from the award date until cessation based on the market conditions, of dividends which have been paid of employment or for performance.
exchange rates and the during the period from the grant date Companys results or other to the vesting date.
No performance conditions apply relevant considerations, and to the DSA shares as they have suspend them if they are been subject to fulfilment not justified.
The annual base salary for the Performance Share Under the PSP, annual rolling Maximum grant permitted under Vesting is based on relative TSR, reporting year and the current year Plan PSP conditional share awards are made the plan rules is 200% of salary.
measured against the constituents is set out in the Annual Report on with a four-year vesting period and of the FTSE Gold Mines Index Remuneration.
See notes to the To provide long-term Default grant level is expected an additional mandatory holding and also on the Companys Policy table below for a rationale alignment with to be 150% of base salary.
period of one year following vesting.
shareholders Threshold vesting is equivalent interests by Stretching performance targets Peers are ranked and the to 20% of the award.
Benefits The Group does not provide any Not applicable.
delivering sustainable reward participants for delivering Companys position benefits for its Group CEO.
above-market positive absolute and superior Dividend equivalents will be determines vesting: shareholder returns.
relative TSR performance received on vested shares, 0% vests for below Annual bonus The annual bonus result is Maximum bonus opportunity The annual bonus is earned on against global peers over the reflecting the value of dividends median performance: determined by the Committee 125% of base salary.
the basis of the achievement of a To focus on performance period.
which have been paid during the after the year end, based on mix of financial and non-financial 20% vests at achieving annual Target bonus opportunity period from the grant date to the performance against defined targets.
For 2016, performance Clawback and malus provisions median performance: performance goals, 100% of base salary.
metrics and associated weightings apply for the unvested portion of the which are based on Annual bonuses are paid three 100% vests at top decile Threshold nil annual bonus for for each were: PSP, whereby the Remuneration the Groups KPIs months after the end of the financial performance and above: and threshold performance.
production 25% : Committee may, at any time up to and strategy.
year to which they relate.
no award will vest if absolute and including vesting, reduce the total cash costs 25% : TSR is negative, regardless 50% of the annual bonus earned is number of shares that vest, completion of new projects on of relative performance.
paid in cash and the remaining 50% should it consider that a material time and within budget 25% : is compulsorily deferred into shares, Vesting occurs on a linear line misstatement, misconduct, and or and which are released annually to the basis between median and top a failure of risk management occur.
employee over the next three years in health and safety 25%.
Retesting of the performance equal instalments through the There is an additional penalty factor The Committee may substitute, conditions in future years is not Deferred Share Awards plan DSA.
for fatal severe cases for up to 50% vary or waive the performance allowed under any circumstances.
No clawback is applied to the cash of the annual bonus earned for targets if an event occurs part of the annual bonus as this First grant under the PSP was made non-safety related KPIs.
which causes the Committee provision would contradict the labour in April 2014. to consider that the target is law of the Russian Federation.
The Committee has discretion First normal vesting in April 2018, no longer appropriate.
to vary the list and weighting Details of the DSA are set out subject to performance conditions performance metrics over the The Committee has discretion to on the next page.
life of this Remuneration Policy.
vary the proportion of awards that In addition, the Committee has vest to ensure that the outcomes discretion to vary performance are fair and appropriate and metrics part-way through a reflect the underlying financial performance year if there is a performance of the Group.
significant event which causes the Committee to believe that the original performance metrics are no longer appropriate.
Performance is measured over the financial year.
86 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 87 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES ELEMENT AND PERFORMANCE The remuneration policy for the other members of the executive team and broader management team of the Group is consistent in both PURPOSE LINK METRICS USED AND structure and KPIs with the policy in respect of the Group CEO.
While the value of remuneration will vary throughout the Group, depending TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERIOD APPLICABLE upon the individuals role, criticality to the business and level of responsibility, the remuneration of all senior executives consists of a base salary, Pension The Group does not fund any Does not exceed the mandatory Not applicable.
an annual bonus and participation in the LTIP the PSP and DSA.
pension contributions or retirement contribution made to the pension To provide funding benefits, except contributions to the fund of the Russian Federation.
Employees up to three levels below the Board approximately 300 employees throughout the Group participate in the PSP at the discretion for retirement.
mandatory pension fund of the of the Remuneration Committee.
The PSP policy default grant level is 150% of base salary for the Group CEO, 100% for Executive Currently 10% of total pay.
Russian Federation, as required by Committee members and 50-100% for employees at the level below the Executive Committee.
Shareholding requirements are also set below Board level.
The DSA operations mirror the arrangement set out for executive Directors The Group pays defined in the policy table, where 50% of the annual bonus is compulsorily deferred into shares and released annually to employees over a period contributions to the mandatory of three years.
This permits retiring employees to receive a defined monthly pension for life from the Remuneration Policy for the wider group of employees is aimed at aligning pay with the achievement of targeted results for each employee.
The Companys policy on fair pay provides for the payment of additional remuneration for employees living in difficult climatic locations and the delivery of appropriate levels of pay for different levels of work.
The bonus component of remuneration for mid-level management and Minimum The Group CEO is required to build 500% of base salary for the Not applicable.
operational staff is measured based on the achievement of production targets, increasing output, the level of justified cost savings and health shareholding a minimum shareholding over Group CEO.
In terms of pension arrangements, the Company applies a consistent approach for the Group CEO and other employees requirements a five-year period.
and adheres to the mandatory pension contributions required under applicable laws.
To strengthen Unvested shares under the PSP or alignment between DSA are not taken into account when Salaries are considered for annual increases based on the Companys performance results, inflation rates and the competitive level of interests of executive calculating progress towards the salaries versus the wider market.
Directors and those minimum shareholding requirements.
For the purposes of determining 3.
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE whether the requirements have been PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND TARGETS met, share price is measured at the The Committee selected the performance conditions indicated in the policy table because they are central to the Companys overall strategy, end of each financial year.
and include the key metrics used under the annual bonus and LTIP by the Group CEO to oversee the operation of the business.
Post vesting and tax, all shares Performance targets for all of our incentive plans are reviewed annually and, where appropriate, are typically set at a level that is in line with acquired under PSP and DSA the Companys forecasts.
awards must be retained until the shareholding requirement is met.
CHANGES TO REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2017 COMPARED WITH THE POLICY PUT TO BINDING VOTE IN 2014 Non-executive Directors Design element Changes made during the year Fees for nonThe fees of independent nonFees are reviewed, but not Not applicable.
executive Directors executive Directors are set by necessarily increased, on an Base salary On the back of Russian volatile economic environment and a rapid devaluation of the Russian rouble since 2014 reference to those paid by other annual basis.
cumulatively the exchange rate declined by 56% during 2011-2016 while average annual inflation was 8.1% p. a.
To attract and retain FTSE peer companies.
there is a material reduction in the dollar value of rouble-denominated packages offered to the Group CEO in high-calibre nonAny increase in non-executive US Dollar terms.
On an after-tax basis, the Group CEOs salary is approximately 20% below the level of the lower executive Directors.
Fees are set to reflect the Directors fees will normally be in quartile of its UK-listed peers.
The current base salary levels for top management pose a significant risk to the responsibilities and time spent line with UK inflation and market Companys ability to retain key personnel and, consequently, to the sustainability of its business model and by non-executive Directors on the levels for similar roles in UK-listed strong performance.
With the Russian mining sector recovering, we expect increased competition for mining affairs of the Company.
companies, except where a change personnel, starting with senior management with a proven operating track record.
in the scope of the role occurs.
No fees are paid to non-independent Current fee levels are set out in the Based on the above, the Committee proposes, as a change to existing policy, to increase the Group CEOs salary non-executive Directors.
in Roubles by 25% in 2017, effective from 1 April 2017 and by up to 10 percentage points above the Russian Non-executive Directors are not domestic inflation rate in both 2018 and 2019 currently forecasted at 4-6% p. a..
The Committee will carefully eligible to receive benefits and do review whether these increases remain appropriate in 2018 and 2019 based on the market conditions, exchange not participate in incentive or rates and the Companys results or other relevant considerations, and suspend them if they are not justified.
Annual bonus No changes made.
The following fees are paid in addition to the non-executive LTIP DSA and PSP No changes made.
50% of annual bonus deferred into shares as required by the DSA.
Grants of options were Director base fee: made under the PSP plan in April 2014, 2015 and 2016.
A new tranche of options is expected to be granted in April 2017 in ordinary course.
Committee chairmanship fee: Non-executive Any increase in non-executive Directors fees will normally be in line with UK inflation and market levels for similar Committee membership fee: and Directors roles in UK-listed entities, except where a change in the scope of the role occurs.
Board, Committee and General Shareholder Meeting Current fee levels are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee determines the framework and broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman.
The remuneration of non-executive Directors is a matter for the Chairman of the Board and the executive members of the Board, i. e. the Group CEO.
Directors do not participate in discussions relating to their own fees.
88 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 89 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED THE LTIP 5.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION Following shareholder approval at the AGM in June 2013, a long-term incentive programme the LTIP was put in place.
Some minor The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay a competitive overall package as appropriate to attract and motivate the amendments to the change of control provisions for the LTIP were approved by shareholders at the AGM in May 2014. right talent for the role.
If an executive is promoted to the Board from within the Company, any pre-existing awards or benefits that were made available to him or her prior to becoming a Director and not in anticipation of an imminent promotion to the Board will be retained The key terms of the LTIP are described in the Remuneration Policy table above.
and allowed to vest or be provided under the original terms.
The Board believes that the LTIP ensures continued alignment of the executive teams performance with shareholder interests and rewards The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the superior long-term performance and the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
The Board also believes that the LTIP is in line with UK appointment of an executive Director.
Any new Directors remuneration package would include the same elements, be set at a level best practice and follows fully the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and other relevant guidelines, while also containing consistent with the scope of the role at a level not exceeding that of the Group CEO as set out in the Remuneration Policy table and features which are superior to common practice in the UK such as a positive TSR underpin for vesting of the PSP.
be subject to the same constraints as those of existing Directors performing similar roles, as shown below.
ILLUSTRATION OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY Base salary The base salary level will be set by taking into account the experience of the individual and the salaries paid in The composition and structure of the remuneration package for the Group CEO under three performance scenarios Maximum and benefits comparable companies.
Depending on the circumstances of any particular appointment, the Committee may performance, Target performance and Minimum performance is set out in the chart below.
choose to set the base salary below market median and increase the amount paid over a period of time to achieve alignment with market levels for the role with reference to the experience and performance of the This chart shows that the proportion of remuneration delivered through short-term and long-term incentive schemes is in line with our individual, subject to the Companys ability to pay.
In line with the remuneration policy, as set out in the remuneration policy and changes significantly across the three performance scenarios.
As such, the package promotes the achievement of Directors Remuneration Policy table, no benefits will be provided to recruited Directors.
both short-term and long-term performance targets and drives the alignment of the Group CEOs interests with the interests of shareholders.
Pension Pension contributions will be limited to the mandatory contributions required by Cypriot Russian Kazakh or any other applicable law, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy table.
REMUNERATION POLICY Annual bonus The executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the Directors US$m Remuneration Policy table.
The maximum annual opportunity is 125% of base salary.
50% of any bonus is deferred into shares under the DSA, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy table.
Maximum Long-term The executive Director will be eligible to participate in the LTIP PSP at the Remuneration Committees 29% 32% 39% Total US$1.6 million incentives discretion in line with the details set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy table.
The maximum annual grant permitted under the scheme rules is 200% of base salary and the normal grant level is up to 150% of base Target salary.
Performance measures would apply, as set out in the Remuneration Policy table.
46% 42% 12% Total US$1.0 million Replacement The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards so that overall they are no more generous Minimum awards in terms of quantum or timing than the awards to be forfeited as a consequence of the individual joining the 100% Total US$0.5 million Company.
In determining the quantum and structure of any replacement awards, the Committee will seek to replicate the fair value and, as far as practicable, the timing, form and performance requirements of the 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 forfeited remuneration.
The maximum value of replacement awards is capped at 50% of the individuals base salary, and at least 50% of any replacement award should be delivered in the Companys shares.
Fixed elements of remuneration Single year variable Other Should relocation of a newly recruited executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated with this Multiple year variable relocation will be met by the Company.
Such relocation support may include, but not be limited, to payment of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation hotel costs, a contribution to stamp duty and Note: Scenario values are translated at the exchange rate of RUB US$60.
replacement of non-transferable household items.
In addition, and in appropriate circumstances, the Committee may grant additional support in relation to the payment of school fees and the provision of tax The scenarios are defined as follows: advice.
The Company will reimburse the executive Director for all reasonable expenses which he she may incur while carrying out executive duties.
Minimum Target Maximum Fixed elements Base salary and pension Not applicable Not applicable Single year variable Performance against quantitative Performance against quantitative Performance against quantitative KPIs is below budget by more KPIs is at budgeted levels.
Full KPIs is above budgeted levels.
Non-achievement of achievement of non-financial KPIs.
Full achievement of non-financial qualitative or non-financial KPIs.
100% of base salary payout KPIs.
125% of base salary payout 0% payout.
Multiple year variable Share price performance Scenario is based on 150% policy Share price performance is in the is below the median of FTSE awards.
Share price performance top decile of FTSE Gold Mines Gold Mines Index constituents.
is at median of FTSE Gold Mines Index constituents.
Shares equivalent to 150% of base salary equivalent to 30% of base salary vest under the PSP 100% of total vest under the PSP 20% of total shares available.
No allowance has been made for share price appreciation or for the payment of dividend equivalents.
Non-executive Directors do not receive performance-related pay.
Their fees are disclosed in the Remuneration Policy table on page 88.
90 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 91 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 6.
POLICY ON PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE 7.
CURRENT DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take into account individual circumstances, including GROUP CEO the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties and applicable share plan and pension scheme rules including any The table below highlights key elements of the service contract of the Group CEO with JSC Polymetal, the Russian holding company of the relevant performance conditions.
Group where he holds the CEO position: Date of contract 1 September 2013 Vitaly Nesis is an Executive Director of Polymetal International plc and CEO of JSC Polymetal, a 100% subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Russia.
Further details are set out in the current Directors service contracts section on page 93.
Expiry of term 31 August 2018 Payment in lieu of notice None The table below summarises the key elements of the executive Director policy on payment for loss of office.
Pension None, except for defined contributions to the mandatory pension fund of the Russian Federation Area Policy and operation Following the expiry of the previous five-year employment contract, on 23 August 2013, JSC Polymetal, a 100% indirect subsidiary of the Notice period Polymetal International JSC Polymetal Company incorporated in Russia, entered into an employment contract with Mr Nesis as its Chief Executive Officer CEO.
The contract 6 months from Company With immediate effect from Company 6 months from Director 1 month from Director became effective on 1 September 2013.
The contract was entered into for a period of five years and expires on 31 August 2018.
Under the terms of the contract, the CEO undertakes to perform general management of JSC Polymetal and arrange for its commercial, economic, Compensation No entitlement in respect of directorship of Polymetal International.
social and other activities with a view to providing for JSC Polymetals further development.
The employment contract does not contain any for loss of office in Up to three times average monthly salary in respect of directorship of JSC Polymetal in accordance with specific grounds for early termination.
The contract can be terminated at any time on one months notice by Mr Nesis and with immediate service contracts provisions of the labour law of the Russian Federation.
effect by JSC Polymetal in accordance with Russian labour and civil law.
This could result in compensation of three average monthly salaries.
Treatment of annual Where an executive Directors employment is terminated after the end of the performance year, but before Mr Nesis entered into an appointment letter as amended with the Company in relation to his appointment as a Director.
This appointment bonus awards the payment of the annual bonus is made, the executive may be eligible for an annual bonus award for that took effect on 29 September 2011 and was conditional on admission of shares to trading on the London Stock Exchange: Mr Nesis is performance year subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
No award will subject to annual re-election.
Mr Nesis does not receive any fees in respect of his appointment as a Director of Polymetal International plc be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Where an executive Directors employment is terminated during but is entitled to reimbursement of his reasonable expenses incurred in relation to carrying out his duties as a Director.
The appointment of a performance year, a pro-rated annual bonus award for the period worked in that performance year may be Mr Nesis as a Director may be terminated at any time in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Mr Nesis can terminate his appointment payable, subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
as a Director on six months notice.
He is not entitled to receive any compensation in respect of his role as Director on termination of Treatment of unvested In normal circumstances, DSAs will continue until the normal time of vesting upon cessation of employment this appointment.
Deferred Share Awards in Good Leaver Circumstances.
Alternatively, the Board may determine that DSAs will vest immediately.
DSAs under plan rules In both circumstances there would be no pro-rating of the DSAs for time from the award date until cessation The full terms and conditions of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office in Jersey and its office in Cyprus.
of employment or for performance.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Treatment of unvested Any outstanding award will lapse at cessation of employment with the Group, unless the cessation is due to Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
Rather, the terms of their appointment are set out in letters of appointment.
Performance Share Plan Good Leaver Circumstances, in which case the award will usually vest as normal in accordance with the terms PSP awards under of the award.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that the award will vest immediately.
The appointment of each of the non-executive Directors took effect from admission until the next AGM of the Company, subject to annual plan rules re-election.
The appointment of any non-executive Director may be terminated at any time in accordance with the Articles of Association.
The Committee will determine the proportion of the award that will vest, taking into account where relevant The appointment of each non-executive Director may be terminated by either party on one months notice.
A non-executive Director is not the extent to which the performance conditions have been met or are likely to be met at the end of the entitled to receive any compensation on termination of his or her appointment.
Each non-executive Director is subject to confidentiality performance period, and any other factors the Committee may consider relevant.
restrictions without limitation in time.
Exercise of discretion Any discretion available in determining the treatment of incentives upon termination of employment is intended only to be relied upon to provide flexibility in unusual circumstances.
The Committees determination will take The full terms and conditions of appointment of all of the Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office into account the particular circumstances of the Directors departure and the recent performance of the Group.
in Jersey and its office in Cyprus.
Corporate event In relation to PSP awards, in the event that the Companys shares cease to trade on the London Stock Dates of contract or appointment for non-executive Directors are set out in the table below: Exchange or any other recognised stock exchange Delisting or the Directors of the Company pass a resolution to the effect that Delisting is imminent or where the Board determines that a significant event has Director Date of contract or appointment Notice period occurred, which may be a demerger, winding-up or compulsory acquisition of the Company, or any other Bobby Godsell 29 September 2011 1 month event as determined by the Board, at the discretion of the Board and, where applicable, with the consent of the acquiring company, PSP awards will not vest but will be exchanged for new PSP awards.
Konstantin Yanakov 29 September 2011 1 month In the event that the PSP awards are exchanged for new PSP awards: Jean-Pascal Duvieusart 29 September 2011 1 month the award date of the new PSP award shall be deemed to be the same as the award date of the original Marina Grnberg 29 September 2011 1 month PSP award: Jonathan Best 29 September 2011 1 month the new PSP award will be in respect of shares in a company determined by the Board which may include Russell Skirrow 29 September 2011 1 month any acquiring company: Leonard Homeniuk 29 September 2011 1 month the new PSP award must be equivalent to the PSP award and will vest at the same time and in the same manner as the PSP award: and Christine Coignard 1 July 2014 1 month where relevant, either the vesting of the new PSP award must be subject to any performance conditions which are, so far as possible, equivalent to any conditions applying to the PSP award, or no performance conditions will apply but the value of shares comprised in the new PSP award shall be the value of the number of shares which would have vested under the PSP award if they had not been exchanged for new PSP awards.
DSAs shall vest immediately and shall not be pro-rated for time or performance if any of the events referred to above occur.
92 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 93 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 8.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS 2.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AUDITED The Company will be requesting shareholder approval of its Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 16 May 2017 to cover a period of three ANNUAL BONUS TARGETS AND OUTCOMES years.
The policy will apply from the date of approval.
The previous policy was approved in 2014 and received 99.8% of votes in favour.
The targets for annual bonus measures and performance against these targets are set out below: The Directors annual Remuneration Report was put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM of the Company and received Measures Weight Threshold Target Maximum 2016 Outcome Achievement 99.82% support.
The Committee regularly consults with the Companys major shareholders, and seeks their feedback on the executive Director Remuneration Policy.
Achieving production budget, Koz 25% 1,125 1,250 1,312 1,260 27% Total cash cost per ounce of gold 25% 638 580 551 563 32% In November 2016, Polymetal circulated proposed limited one-off changes to its Remuneration Policy in respect of the executive Director equivalent produced, US$ base salary to its major shareholders and had some follow-up communication regarding this matter.
Completion of new projects 25% 1 point 10 points 10 points 9.8 points 25% on time and within budget 9.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP Health and safety 25% Nil fatalities: Nil fatalities: NA 4 fatalities 0% In determining salary increases for the Group CEO, the Committee takes into account a range of factors, including overall base salary reduction reduction increases awarded to the wider employee population during the year.
Since 2011, the average employee compensation increase of the of LTIFR by of LTIFR by general workforce has been equivalent to 14% per annum in Rouble terms, compared to an average base salary increase in Rouble terms 10% y-o-y 10% y-o-y of 7% per annum for the Group CEO.
We are firmly committed to acknowledging and rewarding employees hard work and achievements.
To help us attract and retain the best candidates, we offer competitive salaries and benefits which exceed regional averages in our areas Penalty factor for fatal severe cases Up to 50% of NA NA NA 4 fatalities -33.5% of operation.
bonus earned for non-safety related KPIs The Committee consulted with the selected focus group of employees on the appropriateness of the Group CEOs pay arrangements up to 37.5% and overall response was that Group CEOs payment structure was effective for the achievement of Companys objectives.
of total bonus Total 100% 50.2% ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2016 Penalty factor for fatal severe cases is up to 50% of the annual bonus.
This resulted in the Group CEO receiving a bonus of 40% of maximum opportunity for the year which constitutes 50% of his base salary or US$152,329.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION US$ No discretion has been used in respect of non-executive and executive Directors remuneration throughout the reporting period.
DEFERRED SHARE AWARDS PLAN In accordance with the DSA, part of the award of shares under the DSA, which were granted in March 2014 and March 2015, vested on The table below sets out 2016 remuneration for the Group CEO.
The Group CEOs remuneration is denominated in Russian Roubles and 31 March 2016 and were transferred to the Group CEO.
In addition, further to the bonus approval for the year ended 31 December 2016, converted to US Dollars for presentation purposes.
The approach to exchange rates and Russian Rouble remuneration equivalent is set out the Group CEO will receive on 15 March 2017 a deferred bonus award in shares under the terms of the DSA as per the schedule below.
in footnote 2 to this table.
Share awards will vest annually over the next three years in equal instalments in March 2018, 2019 and 2020.
Under the terms of the DSA, dividend equivalents will be received on vested shares reflecting the value of the dividends, which have been paid during the period from Performance Share Plan the grant date to the vesting date.
Dividend equivalents will also be paid as shares.
Base salary Taxable benefits Annual bonus PSP Pension Total 1 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Additional Number of DSA share Total 303,289 351,694 152,329 122,005 40,792 37,965 496,410 511,664 deferred Number of awards for number of DSA shares DSA shares dividend DSA shares Outstanding 1 50% of the bonus received in 2016 will be deferred into 7,909 shares on 15 March 2017 at GBP8.26 RUB 648 per share using average price for the 90-day period ending Name Position Year of grant granted vested in 2016 equivalents vested DSA shares 31 December 2016.
In line with policy disclosed on pages 86-87, deferred shares will be released in equal tranches over a period of three years in March 2018, March 2019 and March 2020 and are not subject to further performance conditions.
Vitaly Nesis Director 2014 30,081 10,027 418 20,472 10,027 2 The amounts are translated at the average rates of the Russian Rouble to the US Dollar for 2015 and 2016, respectively.
2016 6,656 6,656 Details of total fees paid to non-executive Directors and the Chairman during 2016 and 2015 are set out in the table below: Total 58,915 17,420 1,686 29,133 31,468 Total fees US$ 2016 2015 PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN Bobby Godsell 388,666 433,018 Under the PSP, a conditional award of 48,507 ordinary shares with no par value was made to Mr Nesis in 2016, making the total number of options outstanding under the PSP 188,838.
It is exercisable following respective four-year vesting periods, subject to performance Jonathan Best 226,709 257,049 measures determined by Polymetal.
For this award, vesting is based on relative TSR, measured against the constituents of the FTSE Gold Russell Skirrow 199,827 210,150 Mines Index and also on the Companys absolute TSR.
Peers are ranked and the Companys position determines vesting 0% vests for Leonard Homeniuk 191,650 215,455 below median performance: 20% vests at median performance: 100% vests at top decile performance and above.
No award will vest if absolute TSR is negative, regardless of relative performance.
Christine Coignard 232,515 252,015 Konstantin Yanakov Number of Number of Total Marina Grnberg PSP share PSP shares number of Outstanding Year of grant awards vested PSP shares shares under Jean-Pascal Duvieusart Name Position Year of vesting granted in 2016 vested PSP grant Total non-executive fees 1,239,367 1,367,687 Vitaly Nesis Director 2014 2018 74,165 74,165 Note: The amounts for 2016 and 2015 are translated at average GBP US$ exchange rates.
2015 2019 66,166 66,166 2016 2020 48,507 48,507 Total number of options outstanding under the PSP 188,838 188,838 OTHER SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR No other share awards were made to the Group CEO in 2016.
94 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 95 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 3.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN GROUP CEOS REMUNERATION Save for the Groups defined contributions to the mandatory pension fund of the Russian Federation during the financial year ended Excluding the value of long-term incentives, the percentage change in total remuneration for the Group CEO was a 3% decrease from 31 December 2016, no amounts were set aside or accrued by the Group to provide pension, retirement or other benefits to the Directors US$511,665 in 2015 to US$496,411 in 2016 mainly due to the devaluation of the Russian Rouble against the US Dollar.
The average and senior management.
percentage change in total remuneration for all employees in the year was a 7% decrease mainly driven by devaluation.
LOSS OF OFFICE PAYMENTS OR PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS To ensure the comparability of this figure, and to minimise distortions, the all-employee remuneration figure is on the basis of full-time No loss of office payments or payments to past Directors were made in the year under review.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The Group CEO is required to retain a shareholding equal to five times his base salary, i. e. 199,367 shares.
The chart below shows how employee remuneration costs compare with profit before tax and distributions made to shareholders in 2016 and 2015.
For the purposes of determining whether the requirements have been met, share price is measured at the end of each financial year.
Shares are valued for these purposes at the year-end price of US$10.52 per share at 31 December 2016 translated at the closing exchange rate of RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF EMPLOYEE PAY the US Dollar to the Russian Rouble as at 31 December 2016.
US$m Shares that count towards shareholding requirements include unfettered shares.
The table below sets out the number of shares held, 8% -27% 33% or potentially held, by Directors.
For details of outstanding conditional share awards held by the Group CEO at 31 December 2016 refer 386 to page 95.
Shares held Options held 216 291 273 252 158 127 Shareholding Subject to Current Special Special requirement Owned performance Vested but Exercised shareholding Guideline 64 dividends dividends Director % of salary outright conditions unexercised in year % salary met 89 94 Regular Regular dividends dividends Vitaly Nesis 500% 3,129,133 7,848% yes 1 Total employee Return to Underlying profit Leonard Homeniuk 64,000 NA pay shareholders before tax Bobby Godsell 2,000 NA 2 Marina Grnberg 16,000 NA 2015 2016 1 Shares are held by a Person Closely Associated with Mr Homeniuk.
2 Shares are held by a Persons Closely Associated with Ms Grnberg.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FOLLOWING FINANCIAL YEAR In 2017, the Committee intends to implement the executive and non-executive Director remuneration policy as follows: 6.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE The graph below illustrates the Companys TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment GROUP CEO companies, of which the Company is a constituent, from the date of the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange in October 2011.
BASE SALARY To provide context to the Companys performance in its specific sector of operation, we also provide an illustration of the Companys TSR As a one-off change to the operation of the policy following careful consideration by the Committee, the Group CEOs salary will be relative to the constituents of the FTSE Gold Mines Index.
increased in Roubles by a total of 25% in 2017.
Base salary for the Group CEO for 2016 and 2017 is set out below: 1 1 2017 salary 2016 salary % change TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN RUB25,443,600 RUB20,354,880 25% % Group CEO US$424,060 US$297,436 43% 160 1 Base salary for 2017 is translated at the budgeted exchange rate of Rouble to US Dollar for 2017.
Base salary for 2016 is translated at the closing exchange rate of Rouble 140 to US Dollar stated by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation as at 28 March 2016.
120 Cumulatively the US$ RUB exchange rate declined by 56% during 2011-2016 while average annual inflation was 8.1% p. a. resulting in 100 2 Group CEOs package being significantly lower than in comparable companies.
Based on the above, the Committee proposed, as 80 a one-off change to the operation of the policy, to increase the base salary by 25% in 2017.
The increase to the Group CEO will also be 60 in line with the similar raises awarded to other members of the senior executive team.
40 2 Based on the results of benchmarking commissioned by the Committee in July 2016 and performed by its remuneration consultants,  LLP.
20 Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec PENSION AND BENEFITS 2011 2011 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 No pension or benefits plans are in place for 2017, except for the defined pension contributions to the mandatory pension fund of the Russian Federation.
Polymetal share price FTSE Gold Mines Index Polymetal TSR FTSE Gold Mines TSR ANNUAL BONUS 7.
GROUP CEOS PAY IN LAST FIVE YEARS The prospective targets for annual bonus measures are considered commercially sensitive by the Board, particularly in the gold mining industry, because of the sensitivity of information that their disclosure may provide to the Companys competitors, given that these are largely US$ 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 based outside the UK and hence are not subject to the same reporting requirements as the Company.
Targets and outcomes will be Group CEO total remuneration 496,410 511,665 907,790 1,081,572 1,037,413 disclosed retrospectively at the end of the performance year.
Annual bonus % of maximum 40% 33% 90% 88% 90% PSP award % of maximum 96 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 97 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN DEFERRED SHARE AWARDS PLAN AND PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS RELATING TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION DEFERRED SHARE AWARDS PLAN In 2016, the Remuneration Committee had four meetings.
Further business conducted by the Committee was approved by written The Committee intends to defer annual bonus awards earned for the 2017 performance period in line with policy.
The following key areas were covered: KPI structure review with particular focus on the choice and applicability of a sustainability KPI: PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN review of KPIs for 2016: The Committee intends to make an award under the PSP to the Group CEO in 2017, in line with the policy disclosed on page 87. approval of annual bonus and share deferral under the DSA: Vesting is based on relative TSR measured against the constituents of the FTSE Gold Mines Index and on the Companys absolute TSR.
approval of PSP grant including target levels and results of the previous grants : Peers are ranked and the Companys position determines vesting: review approach to change in circumstances of PSP participants: TSR vs. FTSE Gold Miners Payout comprehensive remuneration policy review ahead of the binding shareholder vote in 2017, including: Below threshold Below median performance 0% LTIP overview and discussion as to the necessity of a review: Threshold Median performance 20% benchmarking: senior executives remuneration and independent non-executive Directors fees: Maximum Upper decile performance 100% review mechanics of salary increase proposal salary levels for the executive group: Straight-line vesting will occur between median and upper decile performance.
No award will vest for performance below median, or if the terms of reference review: Companys absolute TSR performance is negative, regardless of relative performance.
annual reimbursement policy review: NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS annual remuneration report review: The policy for determining non-executive Directors fees will be unchanged from 2016.
Fee rates for 2016 and 2017 are set out below: review peers disclosure of targets in remuneration reports: target KPI disclosure: 2017 fees 2016 fees review of regulatory changes and development of the Directors remuneration reporting: and Role US$ US$ monitoring of market practice and changes in investors expectations.
Non-executive Chairman 370,400 370,400 Senior Independent Director No additional fee No additional fee The Board considers that the composition and work of the Remuneration Committee complies with the requirements of the UK Corporate Independent non-executive Director basic fee 148,160 148,160 Governance Code.
Additional fees STATEMENT OF VOTING AT AGM Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 44,448 44,448 At the AGM held on 17 May 2016, votes for the Remuneration report and Remuneration policy were as follows: Chairman of other Committees 22,224 22,224 Votes for Votes against Withheld Committee membership fee not payable to the Committee Chair 14,816 14,816 352,917,805 99.82% 629,658 0.18% 17,698 Board and Committee meeting attendance fee 4,445 per meeting 4,445 per meeting Note: Non-executive Director fees are denominated in British Pounds Sterling and for presentation purposes the figures are translated to US Dollars at the exchange rate of British At the AGM held on 21 May 2014, votes for the Remuneration policy were as follows: Pound to the US Dollar as at 31 December 2016.
Votes for Votes against Withheld REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 238,263,983 99.77% 540,821 0.23% 0 The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent non-executive Directors who have no personal financial interest, other than as a shareholder where applicable, in the matters to be decided.
ADVISORS The membership of the Remuneration Committee is shown in the table below.
 LLP PwC provided Polymetal with information and support in relation to benchmarking, the review of the Companys remuneration policy, and shareholder consultation, in order to aid the Committee in their discussions.
PwC is a member of the Name Role Remuneration Consultants Group RCG and a signatory of the RCG Voluntary Code of Practice, and incorporates the principles of the Christine Coignard Chair Voluntary Code of Practice into its engagement.
No other services were provided by PwC during 2016 other than external assurance Leonard Homeniuk Member services for the Companys Sustainability report and tax advisory.
Fees paid to PwC in relation to remuneration services provided to the Committee in 2016 totalled US$13,875 no fees in 2015, with fees quoted in advance and based on the level of complexity of the work Jonathan Best Member undertaken.
The Committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the advice it receives from PwC at a private meeting held on an annual basis.
The principal functions of the Remuneration Committee under its terms of reference are: to make recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy on the remuneration of executive management: PwC was selected in 2013 after submitting a proposal to management to carry out benchmarking, as part of a competitive process, to determine, within agreed terms of reference, the remuneration of the Chairman and specific remuneration packages for each the results of which were presented to the Remuneration Committee for approval.
of the Executive Director, the Company Secretary and members of senior management, including pension rights and any compensation payments: During its work in 2016, the Committee was also aided by the Group CEO, and senior finance and human resources executives of the Company.
to formulate suitable performance criteria for the performance-based pay of executive management: to review and oversee all aspects of any executive share scheme operated by or to be established by the Company: and APPROVAL This report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by to oversee and advise the Board on any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company or the Group.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Corporate governance section on the Companys website: www.
Christine Coignard Chair, Remuneration Committee 98 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 99
