Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT During 2016 we had 40 apprentices The Groups split between male and POLICY employed in our businesses in the UK, up female employees at 31 December 2016 Polypipes policy is to enhance from 18 apprentices only two years ago, is shown below: shareholder value whilst ensuring we and we intend to increase the number provide a safe working environment of our apprentices further.
The majority Female Male Total and continually seeking to minimise the of our apprenticeships are in electrical, impact of our operations and products on Directors 1 5 6 mechanical and tool-making trades but the environment.
Senior Managers 43 167 210 we continue to support a limited number The Board considers that operating of apprenticeships in other disciplines.
Employees 593 2,205 2,798 efficiently with high quality standards Underlining our commitment to advanced Total 637 2,377 3,014 includes promoting high standards of manufacturing engineering, we continue health and safety and helping to protect to place apprentices at the new University the environment.
HEALTH AND SAFETY of Sheffield Advanced Manufacturing The Group aims to continuously improve This section of the Strategic Report Research Centre, a state-of-the-art centre the quality and safety of the working sets out our approach to corporate which offers the very best in practical environment for all employees.
The responsibility and includes regulatory and academic training.
In support of our Group has a published Health, Safety information on carbon emissions, engineering focus we continue to work and Environment policy which sets out employee diversity and our policies in closely with Cogent, sector skills council the overriding principles of health and relation to the recruitment and retention to the science industry, supporting safety for all employees.
The business of our employees.
ongoing development of industry specific units operate to externally accredited ISO EMPLOYMENT apprenticeship frameworks for the future.
Our vision for our businesses and The Group involves employees through Health and Safety achievements in employees is to have a culture of formal and informal systems of the year included: customer focussed continuous communication and consultation.
Each For the fourth consecutive year the Group improvement, driven by teamwork, of our main operating sites have display achieved the RoSPA Gold Award for effective communication and personal boards which set out our continuous exceptional performance and dedicated development.
Our core values are hard improvement strategy and include KPIs support for health and safety within the work, honesty, trust and integrity and updated each month on relevant areas organisation.
maintaining a working environment to the strategy such as health and safety based on mutual respect.
performance, products and process Polypipes tool making and repair Polypipe is committed to providing the improvement initiatives and customer business, Mason Pinder, based in Thorne, appropriate skills and technical training satisfaction performance.
achieved 3,000 days without a lost which allows employees to operate time accident.
This is an outstanding Whilst the Group does not have a specific effectively and safely in their roles and achievement and a significant milestone human rights policy, it does have an Antideliver excellent customer service.
As part of which everyone at Mason Pinder can Slavery policy and Modern Slavery and of our ongoing commitment to customer be proud.
This achievement resulted in a Human Trafficking statement available on service excellence, a further 15 employees donation to the Childrens Heart Surgery the Companys website, within which we received Institute of Customer Service Fund of 1,230, which means the total state our zero tolerance policy towards training during the year, resulting in over amount donated under the Charity any modern slavery or human trafficking 200 employees benefitting from this Award for Safety and Health CASH rights violations.
programme in the last 3 years, and all our scheme is over 3,600. new starters in front line service areas will The Group gives every consideration to The Group continued the implementation receive this training on joining the Group.
applicants for employment regardless of a focussed formalised safety of their sex, sexual orientation, religion, Polypipe has consistently provided tour programme for management.
colour, race, nationality, marital status or apprenticeships to the communities These safety tours, undertaken disability having regard for their aptitude around our businesses by supporting by Executive Directors through to and ability to adequately carry out the enthusiastic, highly motivated people department managers, engage staff job whilst maintaining a safe working who are keen to learn a trade.
We and further encourage health, safety environment.
Where employees become have an outstanding record of retaining and environmental discussion and disabled, the Group endeavours to apprentices in ongoing, long-term, full improvement.
employ them provided there are duties time employment, indeed many of our they can perform, bearing in mind their management team started with the aptitudes and abilities.
We consider it an essential part of finding and retaining people with the sector specific skills that we need.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT The Group operates a formal system for Greenhouse gas GHG emissions for We stay close to our existing and reporting and recording hazards and the Group during 2016, in tonnes of potential customers and distributors and near misses.
The See it, Sort it, Report it carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e, were strive to meet their needs.
Our businesses 2 scheme encourages individuals across the as follows: are focussed on achieving market leading business at all levels to report hazards, delivery service levels for our customers tCO e % 2 suggest solutions and allows trends to be and to respond quickly to their emerging analysed.
In 2016, the number of such Source requirements.
reports reached record levels resulting fuel combustion POLYPIPE AND THE LOCAL in improvement projects being delivered stationary 4,344 7 COMMUNITY across the Group which in turn enhanced fuel combustion Each operation is aware of its role employee working environment safety.
Wherever mobile 13,696 22 Accident frequency performance and possible they seek to recruit locally and fugitive emissions details of all significant incidents are retain a skilled local workforce.
They F-gas 622 1 reviewed during the weekly executive are encouraged to build relationships meeting attended by the Executive purchase electricity 43,862 70 with local community organisations and Directors and certain senior managers.
These 62,524 100 activities range from the organisation The table below sets out the KPIs used Our GHG emissions annual comparison of our Annual Charity Sailing Regatta by the Group to monitor accident and intensity were as follows: in which over 700 people from our performance: customers and associates participated, a 2015 2016 change 2014 2015 2016 themed car rally across Europe, through tCO e to quiz nights and cake sales.
Our Frequency per 100,000 hours worked 2 employees raised over 38,000 2015: Total emissions 62,891 62,524 0.6 % all accidents 9.87 6.96 6.93 26,000 for worthwhile causes during Emissions RIDDORS 0.64 0.70 0.70 the year from these activities.
intensity 0.43 0.39 9.3 % HSE reportable accidents and dangerous Charitable donations by Group occurrences based on the current seven-day Expressed in tCO e per tonne of output.
companies during the year were 27,000 2 absence from work reporting requirement in the 2015: 19,000.
UK and although there is no direct equivalent in Our GHG emissions were calculated Mainland Europe and the Middle East the same using the methodology set out in the ANTI-BRIBERY AND definition is applied.
updated GHG reporting guidance issued CORRUPTION POLICY in June 2013 by the Department for THE ENVIRONMENT AND The Group seeks to prohibit all forms of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS bribery and corruption within its business DEFRA.
Emission factors were taken We aim to minimise the lasting impact and complies with the requirements of all from the Department of Energy and of our operations on the environment, applicable Bribery and Corruption Laws.
Climate Change DEFRAs 2016 update and sustainability is a key feature of of GHG Conversion Factors for Company The Group requires all relevant employees our products and their impact on the Reporting, with the exception of nonand agents to confirm each year that environment.
See pages 19 to 24 UK electricity which was taken from they remain in compliance with the for further details of our sustainable the International Energy Agencys 2016 Groups Anti-Bribery policy.
Approved by the Board and signed on its Our modern and efficient injection behalf.
RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR moulding and extrusion operations use CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS significant amounts of electricity.
We David Hall Suppliers are key to our business and monitor very closely our electricity usage, Chief Executive Officer we endeavour to build long-term even at a machine level, and take a 30 March 2017 relationships with them based on trust.
proactive approach to improve energy We will seek to extend our supplier base efficiency.
The Group collects electricity if risks of under capacity or resilience and natural gas usage information from arise in our supply chain.
Polypipe has each operation on a monthly basis.
no significant suppliers who are wholly During 2016 our energy usage increased dependent on the Groups business.
in line with the c. 8% increase in tonnage Suppliers are paid in line with contractual throughput.
35 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 OUR SOLUTIONS Leading Edge POLYSTORM PSM1 Design Expertise MITIGATES FLOOD Sustainable Products and Practices EVENTS ON 2,000 HOME DEVELOPMENT 3 70,000m of Polystorm PSM1 was selected to provide a storm water system for a new residential complex in Dubai.
