com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY At Polypipe, sustainability means starting with the very material that the company has become synonymous with: plastic.
Working with this recyclable material, the company has placed sustainability at the heart of its offering, helping customers to safely manage some of the planets most precious resources water and air.
With increasing rates of population growth in urban areas, the potential for flood events to cause mass disruption is greater than at any point for the past century.
As such, Government bodies, developers and engineers are becoming increasingly aware of the importance of management of water to ensure their city is resilient to such events.
Polypipes ability to design and engineer suitable water management solutions, using the UKs widest range of such products, makes it uniquely placed to provide One of the major benefits of plastic is During the manufacturing process, effective and pragmatic designs to solve its ability to be recycled at the end of Polypipe works hard to limit many of these issues.
its product life, which allows Polypipe environmental impact.
Taking an to create truly sustainable products and engineered approach to manufacture While drainage systems in the UK must solutions.
Along with ensuring that it ensures that Polypipe customers are be able to cope with large amounts only sources virgin plastics and polymers able to receive systems that meet their of water, in other territories water is a from reputable suppliers, Polypipe has needs exactly, minimising waste.
In the Middle invested heavily in its own recycling Polypipe staff recognise the importance East, where Polypipe enjoys an increasing ability.
Recent years have seen the of design through to manufacturing and market share, water management company install and optimise its own installation and the impact that these becomes much more about making the recycling and polymer processing plant at processes have on the environments in best use of the limited amounts available its Horncastle site, allowing the company which they are manufactured and used, while also providing systems that can to create products from recycled plastics, continuously searching for the optimum cope with powerful, if infrequent, storms.
reducing transport and the number of methods of reducing their environmental Polypipes wide range of water processing steps to convert recyclate into impact.
management solutions allow for the a high performing product, ensuring Polypipe believes that to fulfil its creation of systems that are able to quality control throughout.
responsibilities to the wider industry it not only manage large amounts of Not only is the material recyclable at the should actively participate in relevant water, limiting the risk of flooding to end of its product life, which can be as trade bodies such as the British Plastics key infrastructure and property, but long as 100 years, the benefits of plastic Federation, encouraging best practice also allow the treatment and re-use of make it a much more considerate choice and a uniform approach to sustainability water.
Indeed, the wicking capability of for the environment versus alternative across the industry.
Polypipes geocellular systems mean that materials.
Concrete, clay, copper, steel green spaces are able to be created even All of this starts with an understanding and ductile iron pipe systems all require in areas traditionally covered in desert of the built environment.
While significantly more haulage and specialist a key opportunity in states like Dubai, global warming may mean increasing lifting equipment than the comparatively where urban greenery is considered a temperatures, it also means increased much lighter weight of plastics which priority.
rainfall events that have the potential to means that the use of Polypipe systems be erratic.
Flooding, which has become In residential dwellings and tall greatly reduces carbon emissions in more frequent in the UK in recent commercial buildings, Polypipe is able delivery and installation.
years, can cause mass disruption in to begin the process of managing water the areas it affects, causing damage to at roof level.
The companys market homes, commercial premises and vital leading geocellular solutions, Permavoid, infrastructure.
enables architects and M&E consultants to create podium decks within roofs that can capture water and release it 19 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 1 STEP 1 OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY managing air quality and overheating, without creating nuisance ambient noise.
Nuaires efficient and low-noise ventilation systems, with integral heat recovery and air filtration, provide solutions to these issues, offering 2 STEP 1 developers low-energy solutions which safeguard the health of residents, in terms of providing sufficient fresh air.
With an increasing awareness of the need for cities to not only be resilient to into surrounding drainage systems at flooding events, but to plan for these a controlled rate to ensure systems events in advance using principles like dont get overwhelmed.
In addition, water sensitive urban design WSUD, these podium decks have the potential Polypipe and its experts can provide to encourage biodiversity in urban solutions for the creation of spaces that environments through the creation of are healthy and safe by mitigating water green roofs.
Building owners not only abundance, water scarcity and poor air enjoy greater space to sell to potential quality from manufacture through to 3 residents, but can cultivate roof gardens STEP 1 system performance.
that can actively help to mitigate issues such as the Heat Island Effect.
This helps Away from the traditional built to maintain a stable climate and constant environment, Polypipes expertise and temperature inside the building and can product range is being put to the test be part of a carbon efficient solution to in a range of sustainable applications further reduce the energy requirement designed to reduce greenhouse gas for cooling and air conditioning.
emissions and put sustainable energy use at the heart of public life.
In recent years In addition to providing solutions for the Polypipes solutions have been included management of water, the acquisition within hydro-electricity, wind farm of Nuaire has significantly enhanced and solar energy products, where the the Polypipe Groups ability to provide companys cable protection and ducting solutions for energy efficient ventilation products have come into their own.
alongside its heating products which Indeed, Polypipes expert engineers have are suited to low carbon heating.
In 4 STEP 1 also been able to use systems traditionally built urban environments where space used for water management and convert for accommodation is limited, high these into biomass tanks capable of rise residential units are increasingly recycling food waste into energy to prevalent.
While apartment blocks are power commercial premises.
ideal to meet the housing demands of cities, developers must deal with the complex issues of optimising space, Carbon Efficient Solutions see pages 24 to 25 Water Management Solutions 20 see pages 22 to 23 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT 4 STEP 1 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Whatever the application, Polypipe is a company CARBON EFFICIENT that is passionate about not only managing its 3 SOLUTIONS STEP 1 own environmental impact, but ensuring that Product systems that save energy and reduce its systems work to benefit the environments in SUSTAINABLE CO emissions.
2 MATERIALS which they are used.
WATER MANAGEMENT LIGHT IN SOLUTIONS WEIGHT Products that recognise 2 STEP 1 Plastics are lighter, water as a scarce resource easier to handle and reduce and reduce ooding.
SUSTAINABLE PROCESSES STRONG IN USE REDUCED Plastic pipes and ttings WATER are tough, durable and CONSUMPTION resistant to corrosion.
REDUCED MANUFACTURING 1 STEP 1 ENERGY CONSUMPTION OUTCOME SUSTAINABLE INPUTS THE SUSTAINABLE REPROCESSED MATERIAL BUILT ENVIRONMENT PRIME POLYMERS INTERNALLY RECYCLED RESIDENTIAL COMMERCIAL CIVILS INFRASTRUCTURE POLYMERS Recyclable at end of life EXTERNALLY RECYCLED POLYMERS SUSTAINABLE INPUTS SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE PROCESSES MATERIALS SOLUTIONS Enforcing quality, reinforces productivity.
All of our raw We have an environmental Were proud to manufacture Our products are not only materials whether prime or commitment one we dont take plastic pipes that are strong yet sustainably produced, but they recycled polymers are sourced lightly.
So we dont just recycle all light in weight.
This fact alone enhance sustainability in their to a strict sustainable policy and of our in-process material waste: helps towards considerably installation and everyday use.
For this ensures all suppliers meet we monitor every process and reducing fuel consumption in example, they save energy, reduce the highest standards.
With adjust the smallest thing to make transportation, lowering health CO emissions and manage water 2 ISO 9001 Quality Management a bigger difference.
For example, and safety risks on-site and, as as a valuable resource.
Systems and ISO 14001 Environmental we reduce power and water we know, our products can be such as our underfloor heating, Management accreditation, we consumption by metering usage at recycled at end of the life.
mechanical ventilation with heat only manufacture with the very machine level.
recovery and geocellular solutions best materials.
provide the most comprehensive range available in the UK to meet these requirements.
Recycling is just the start.
THE OUTCOME The Built Environment spans across the residential, commercial, civils and infrastructure markets and contributes significantly to the environmental impact of our habitat.
At Polypipe, we are confident that our materials, processes, products and their application in installation and use are serving the demands of today and enhancing our environment into the future.
Read more about our Sustainable Journey www.
com 21 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 QUALITY CONTROLLED INPUTS
