Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY In Action With an increase in urbanisation across the globe, and the challenges that increased population density places on resources, national and regional governments are increasingly aware of the issues surrounding sustainability and the need for urban centres to be resilient to extreme events such as flooding and overheating.
Our expertise and product range make us the ideal partner to help manage the movement of water and the reduction of carbon in these environments, providing a truly global opportunity to create strategic partnerships in established and growing city markets.
WATER MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS In a world where cities are becoming more and more crowded, theres little room left for manoeuvre when it comes to managing water, especially in extreme weather conditions.
While no systems can completely accommodate all flooding events, steps can be taken to mitigate the potential impact.
Polypipes extensive range of Water Management solutions are designed to reduce the potential impact of extreme flooding and to help cities recover more quickly.
In fact, to help cities become ever more resilient, Polypipe has developed systems to manage surface water, flooding, rainwater harvesting and treatment as well as recycling for re-use in flushing toilets.
The system design has been adopted under Section 104 Agreement by Anglian Water whilst also being in accordance with BS EN 1295.
CASE STUDY REGENTS PLACE A 180-property development benefited from Polypipes Ridgistorm-XL diameter piping system for a surface water attenuation system.
An attenuation tank was designed to store more than 3 2,052m of storm water and cater for 1 in 100 plus 30% climate change year storm events.
Over 500m of Ridgistorm-XL was supplied, totalling 14 Ridgistorm-XL pipe runs in 2100mm diameters.
A total of 34 pre-fabricated modularised fittings and 90-degree bends were also used.
Even though the site lacked space and even ground, Polypipe were able to provide a solution that met the projects exact needs.
Industry Authority Bespoke Product Solutions 22 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT LEADERSHIP IN WATER MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS CASE STUDY WALTHAMSTOW STADIUM Polypipe was requested to provide a storm water management system for the redevelopment of Walthamstow Stadium.
It featured 150mm deep Permavoid cells, with Permafilter geotextile laid on top between the cells and permeable paving.
In areas without permeable paving, Permachannel and Permavoid Biomat were installed to capture, treat and attenuate surface water run-off.
The system can handle rainfall in the event of a 1 in 100 year storm and reduces urban storm water run-off from the site by 80%.
The innate strength of the Permavoid cells is why Polypipe were called upon to help.
Intelligent Enabling Sustainable Engineered Solutions Building Technology 23 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY In Action CARBON EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS As with our Water Management solutions, Polypipes Carbon Efficient solutions satisfy the most stringent of Government legislation.
We continue to invest in those products to enable collection, transmission, emission and control in heating, ventilation and cooling.
It simply makes built environments better, more energy efficient, more comfortable to live in and cleaner.
This results in a satisfying outcome, not just for Governments, but for everyone.
Nuaires low profile Q-Aire carbon filter CASE STUDY NUAIRE BRISTOL Polypipe supplied a number of low-energy MVHR and MEV systems to a new apartment development, with the addition OUR SOLUTIONS of an innovative filtration product to help combat the effects of city centre pollution.
As city centre traffic pollution is on the rise, Polypipe installed The carbon filter prevents nitrogen dioxide and particulate a ventilation system inside a matter PM from traffic on a busy road from entering the apartment block and ensures homeowners benefit from the new waterfront apartment Product very highest quality of indoor air.
This in-turn, allowed the development in Bristol to Innovation developers, to meet strict planning conditions that were in create one of the healthiest place to protect the future residents from illnesses caused by postcodes in the city.
Enabling Sustainable poor air quality.
Building Technology 24 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT LEADERSHIP IN CARBON EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS Polypipe Ridgiduct Power HV helped to deliver power to 20,000 homes in Scotland.
CASE STUDY COUR WIND FARM Polypipe supplied over 10km of Ridgiduct Power HV to help connect new wind turbines to the Scottish power grid in Cour.
The system was made up of a twinwall cable protection system and a full range of fittings and accessories designed for use with high voltage power communication cables.
The range is light in weight, flexible, durable, high in strength and can be cut to the required lengths needed.
The system not only aided the delivery of power to homes but offered a robust alternative to PVCu cable protection.
Sustainable Products Manufacturing & Logistics Scale and Practices 25 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5
