Corporate responsibility review Building stronger and more sustainable communities Through our Group-wide corporate responsibility programmes around the world, we help to build stronger and more sustainable communities, supporting our customers, our colleagues and the environment.
This review gives an overview of our activities and progress in 2016.
More detailed information is available online at www.
co. uk  and in our first environment, social and governance ESG report to be published later in 2017.
Serving our customers to diet and nutrition Performance highlights according to their unique Prudential has been meeting peoples 20 million total community genome in order to achieve needs for 168 years and today provides investment their health goals.
long-term savings and protection products 83,284 hours volunteered to around 24 million customers in markets Prudential Singapore on four continents, enabling them to look by employees across the became the first insurer in Prudential Group to the future with confidence.
Singapore to launch an online community portal for 460,167 donated by employees Asia customers to share ideas through payroll giving across In Asia, the demand for savings and and to provide direct the Group protection products continues to grow as feedback on products and people seek greater financial security and services.
We continue to broaden our Pru-for-you, regular offering to help meet the distinct individual dialogue with customers needs of our customers.
allows the business to better understand their needs and in Prudential Hong Kongs new Customer, turn, create an offering that is tailored to Digital and Innovation Centre enables the their financial and lifestyle requirements.
business to embed customer insights into multiple business initiatives, including US product, service and technology.
The Prudentials US operation, Jackson, Centre is equipped with state-of-the-art provides retirement income strategies focus group facilities, fully networked to aimed at the 75 million baby boomers in the allow for real-time user testing of our digital US.
Jackson offers a diverse range of platforms.
These include the myPrudential variable, fixed and fixed-index annuity online portal where customers can manage products, designed with a variety of their insurance policies, the PRUmobile custom options to fit different financial app for on-the-go information and policy goals.
access, and the PRUone integrated sales and advisory platform.
In 2016, Jackson launched Perspective Advisory, the companys first fee-based There is increasing customer awareness of It is in our customers variable annuity.
Perspective Advisory the impact of lifestyle choices on their offers the same investments and optional and shareholders interests well-being in many markets across Asia and benefits, for an additional charge, as 2016 marked Prudential Hong Kongs first for Prudential to be a Perspective II, Jacksons flagship time to offer customers access to an responsible business commission-based variable annuity.
The innovative DNA-based nutrigenomic test.
introduction of the new product was which invests in and The health and protection promotion designed to meet increased market campaign included access to a gives back to our local demand for products compatible with nutrigenomic test, myDNA, offering communities, alongside fee-based accounts and platforms as a individual DNA-based insights into how result of the 2016 US Department of Labor genetics affects an individuals nutrition the jobs, growth and tax Fiduciary Rules.
The addition of needs, dietary sensitivity and well-being.
Perspective Advisory to Jacksons suite of The offer also provided online access to products also allows the business to nutrition experts through a mobile app for expand into advisory distribution channels Paul Manduca personalised recommendations.
Our where insurance products historically have Chairman customers can personalise their approach not been widely utilised.
62 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report Jackson is committed to providing UK and Europe Our PruFund franchise provides a unique education, service support and digital tools range of investment fund options for Following reform of the UKs pension and to increase the ease of doing business.
The advisers and savers, across the risk retirement income system in 2015 Center for Financial Insight is a resource spectrum.
From ISA and bond, to pension Prudential has continued to develop both designed to help investors and employees and income drawdown, the range of six products and processes to meet an gain a better understanding of important different funds continues to flourish, with evolving set of customer expectations and financial and investing topics.
The mission assets under management reaching requirements that increasingly include of the Center is to raise the overall level of 24.7 billion in 2016. having to manage and take responsibility financial education and confidence in the for their own savings and the associated An important part of our service offering is US by providing useful content framed in a risks of longevity, inflation and investment.
the ongoing hands-on support for way that is relevant, consumable and intermediary advisers from our regional Most notably in 2016, we responded to engaging for the modern customer.
sales units, technical helpline and business changes in the market following the Since the re-launch of the site in July 2016, development and consultancy teams.
introduction of pension freedoms by more than 70,000 unique visitors have visited launching the Prudential Retirement In 2016, Prudential hosted a series of the content on the Center, 55,000 of whom Account an online account based plan national seminars covering over 20 are new visitors to Jackson.
In addition, that provides customers with the flexibility locations nationwide, and a structured the most viewed articles on the site are seeing to save for their retirement, provide an WebEx programme covered a range of average viewing times of up to five minutes, income in retirement and facilitate access topical and technical subjects, to help these showing a sustained level of interest.
to their fund as they save.
advisers deal with the changing regulatory landscape.
Our financial planning business, Prudential Financial Planning, also grew significantly in 2016, increasing its number of advisers to 288. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 63 Robs story Chairmans Challenge, Jakarta The first week of the 2016 Chairmans Challenge saw more than 200 employees from Prudential Indonesia head to Taman Mataram in south Jakarta.
Every Saturday for four weeks, the volunteers worked with Prestasi Junior Indonesia and the local community to regenerate an under-utilised park into a green community space incorporating fun activities and a financial education theme.
Rob Gardiner, Management Advisor Prestasi Junior Indonesia said, The 2016 Chairmans Challenge was just what the name suggests a very challenging undertaking.
The initiative required both Prestasi Junior Indonesia and Prudential Indonesia to move outside of their comfort zones and combine financial literacy resources with the rejuvenation of the Taman Mataram city park.
The end result was, however, beyond our expectations.
The corporation has set exceptionally high standards in its efforts to improve the welfare of those within the communities in which it operates.
Corporate responsibility review Continued A number of technology improvements M&G provides market insights to clients, children aged seven to 12.
Developed with were delivered in 2016, including the intermediaries and direct investors through Cartoon Network and Dr Alice Wilder, an introduction of a fully flexible online a number of channels, including a award-winning childrens education application process for the popular programme of roadshows and events and specialist, the programme helps children Prudential ISA product.
To better reflect learn the fundamental money management improvements were made to the telethe diversity of our customer base, during concepts of earn, save, spend and donate.
underwriting service for the Prudential 2016 we significantly increased the size of The programme has gained international Investment Plan, reducing the amount of our M&G Client Council, the panel of our recognition for promoting financial literacy time advisers spend on administration and direct investors that helps us design and has won several industry awards.
Over giving them more time with their clients.
products, services and communications to the past few years it has grown to become better meet their needs.
Members of our one of the top-rated childrens television Prudential UK & Europes success in Client Council played a key role in the early programmes in Asia.
Cha-Ching is now the Financial Adviser Service Awards stage of product concept testing for our available in 10 languages and reaches continued in 2016, with the retention of two newest retail funds: the M&G Absolute 54.3 million households a day across Asia the coveted Five Star ratings in the Life and Return Bond Fund and the M&G Global through the Cartoon Network.
The Pensions and Investments categories for Target Return Fund, which we launched Cha-Ching School Contact Programme the sixth consecutive year.
Prudential was just before the end of the year.
brings Cha-Ching directly to the biggest winner at the Investment Life schoolchildren across Asia and has reached & Pensions MoneyFacts Awards in 2016, Supporting local communities more than 200,000 schoolchildren in nine scooping the top awards for the Best The inherent long-term social value of our Asian countries to date.
Investment Service, Best Investment business is complemented by investments Bond Provider and Best Online Service, Now a Group-wide programme, Chain communities in each of the markets in once again achieving incredible success Ching has been launched in Poland, the which we operate.
We provide support to at one of the most sought-after awards US, the UK and Africa.
In the US, Jackson charitable organisations through both in our industry.
plans to distribute Cha-Ching with national funding and the experience and expertise educational partners and via social media of our employees.
Asset management to increase financial literacy with youth.
In M&G, Prudentials UK and European asset Our investments in communities are addition, partnering with Junior management business, is a long-term designed to support the communities in Achievement USA, Jackson plans to investor that takes seriously its which we operate and deepen distribute a five-week teaching curriculum responsibilities as a steward of clients engagement with colleagues.
As such, our using the Cha-Ching topics and characters assets, often working closely with the community investment programme is to help students engage with personal management of the companies in which we linked to our strategy and is focused finance topics.
M&Gs investment teams around four principal areas: In the UK work will continue to roll out the incorporate environmental, social and Social inclusion: Cha-Ching education website, which governance ESG factors into investment provides teachers with financial education analysis and decision-making processes, Education and life skills: resources built around the animated music wherever they have a meaningful impact Disaster preparedness: and videos, with supporting lesson plans and on risk or return: www.
com en teachers guidance designed to improve corporate about-mg responsibleEmployee engagement.
the financial capability of Key Stage 2 investment We establish long-term relationships with pupils.
The online educational resource Active voting is an integral part of the our charity partners to ensure that the will also support expansion across our investment approach, both adding value projects we support are sustainable, and African markets.
and protecting our interests as we work closely with them to ensure that First Read developing shareholders.
The M&G website provides our programmes continuously improve.
childrens skills an overview of voting history: www.
The Prudence Foundation has funded and Education and life skills mandg.
com en corporate about-mg supported the First Read programme since  voting-history Cha-Ching the first global financial 2013, partnering with Save the Children to education programme Reflecting this approach, M&G is a focus on investing in early childhood care We have a long-standing commitment to signatory to the UN Principles for and development in Cambodia and the financial literacy and Cha-Ching is our Responsible Investment UNPRI, an Philippines.
First Read is a unique flagship financial education programme.
international network of investors working programme that helps parents to develop Launched in Asia in partnership with the together to promote responsible their childrens numeracy and literacy skills Cartoon Network in 2011, it is a multiinvestment practices.
by providing books in the local language or media programme built around threedialect, and encouraging them to read, sing minute animated music videos aimed at 64 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report and count together.
It also helps parents through three secondary school Prudential has worked with a number of understand the importance of healthy and partnerships in Paddington, Reading and charities operating in Ghana, Kenya, nutritious food for childrens development.
Delivered as part of Business in the Uganda and Zambia by funding Communitys Business Class and the educational programmes and projects Over the last three years of the partnership, Scottish Governments Developing the since 2014.
These programmes have over 220,000 children and adults have Young Workforce programmes, the focused on allowing vulnerable children in benefited directly and over 483,000 partnerships have supported over 3,550 these countries to access quality community members indirectly.
In 2017, young people since 2013, with 336 education, through the provision of the partnership will continue with Save the employees giving their time and sharing scholarship awards.
Children, with a particular aim to conduct their knowledge and skills.
Prudentials long-term research and use evidence of  partnership with MyBnk, which delivers First Reads impact to advocate for financial literacy programmes in secondary Regional commitment to disaster replication and greater scale at the schools in London, helps develop money preparedness with Safe Steps national level.
skills for 5,000 young people every year in As a life insurance and asset management deprived areas of the capital.
Teen Zone at the Boys & Girls Club company, our core business is the provision In September 2016, the Boys & Girls Club of protection, security and risk mitigation to Learning with Magic Bus in India of Lansing opened the Jackson Teen Zone.
We focus on In India, Prudential UK & Europes This renovation and 4,680-square-foot disaster relief and preparedness in our Asia employees work in partnership with Magic expansion was funded by support from the markets, as Asia Pacific is the worlds most Bus, which provides children from business and individual employees.
Prudence marginalised communities with new Jackson Teen Zone allowed the Boys & Foundation is working with NGOs and opportunities for learning, leading and Girls Club to repurpose the previous Teen governments to help communities better earning through a sport-focused activity Rooms into innovative tutoring and prepare for such disasters before they curriculum, mentorship and employability educational spaces, providing muchstrike, as well as providing support at times programmes.
This year the business in needed quiet space for homework, college of emergency response and recovery.
Mumbai helped 1,826 students in rural prep and financial literacy support.
The areas take more interest and gain more by Safe Steps National Disasters was launched Boys & Girls Club of Lansing annually introducing a mechanism for learning by in 2014, and is a first-of-its-kind pan-Asian serves more than 5,200 at-risk youths, seeing and doing rather than just learning public service initiative to enhance disaster aged seven to 18. from books.
preparedness and awareness through the dissemination of educational survival tips Supporting young people with Secondary school scholarships for natural disasters.
It is a multi-platform employability and financial skills in across Africa programme including on-air video London In our new markets in Africa we have messages, an informative website and In the UK, one of the core areas of focus is committed to provide support for educational collateral that can be shared ensuring that young people have the academically able but financially among communities.
Core to the employability and financial skills they need disadvantaged high school students, and programme is a series of 60-second to get on in life.
Prudential UK & Europe to help build capacity for training in educational videos that advise individuals has been directly involved in building the actuarial sciences at local universities.
and households on what they should do knowledge and skills of young people Amysstory Prudential Skills for Life programme In partnership with the Transformation Trust, a national education charity, staff volunteers for the Prudential Skills for Life programme provided mentoring support to disadvantaged young people aged 16 to 17 as they prepared to move into further education or the world of work.
The volunteers shared their skills and expertise on topics including CV writing, body language, communication and preparing for an interview.
Amy Brocklehurst, Director of Group Strategy and Corporate Development at Prudential said The Transformation Trust is a fantastic charity giving real opportunities to disadvantaged young people as demonstrated by the Prudential Skills for Life programme.
The students were a real inspiration and it was fantastic to see them grow in confidence.
Students described how the support has helped them prepare for further education and the workplace, and according to the Transformation Trust, 86 per cent of students felt the programme helped prepare them better for life after sixth form.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 65 Corporate responsibility review Continued when disasters strike.
In 2015, Prudence spent time in Vietnam to support the challenge of riding the Prudential Foundation launched its second Safe Steps construction of a new school in Quang Binh RideLondon-Surrey 100.
The Fixing programme, Safe Steps Road Safety, in province.
This formed part of Prudential Challenge will continue in 2017. partnership with National Geographic Vietnams partnership with Plan We are developing a new Prudential Channel and the Fdration Internationale International and the Vietnamese RideLondon programme for 2017 in fide LAutomobile and endorsed by the government, which are collaborating partnership with Teach First, which will use International Federation of the Red Cross.
together to build new disaster-resilient the event as a focal point to promote schools in poor regions throughout The programme has been well received inclusion and help eradicate educational the country.
and a number of partnerships across Asia inequality.
The new PruGOals programme have spread the campaign, including Emergency fund relief will have national reach, working with more free-to-air channels, radio stations and than 15 schools with an increased focus on Prudential has also been a Group-level cinema.
Through these partnerships, Safe supporter of Save the Children since 2010 well-being and mental health.
Steps currently has a potential reach of and is one of the Childrens Emergency Employee fundraising 200 million people a day in Asia.
This allows us to Jackson employees are actively engaged in act swiftly when disasters occur in any of Safe Schools programme our commitment to communities by taking our markets and provides an instant, Prudence Foundation continues its support part in programmes such as the Jackson effective fundraising mechanism for of the Safe Schools programme, partnering National Community Fund Advisory employees when needed.
In 2016 more with Plan International and Save the Committee and the employee-nominated than 98 allocations from the Fund were Children in Cambodia, Indonesia, the matching programme.
The Jackson made to more than 46 countries and we will Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam.
The National Community Fund supports continue to support this partnership programme focuses on capacity-building charities that help the elderly and children in 2017. for students, teachers and local community through quarterly grants in communities members on disaster preparedness, where Jacksons four largest offices are Social inclusion placing schools at the heart of building a located.
Jacksons matching programme Prudential RideLondon culture of disaster preparedness within offers a two-to-one match on all employee social inclusion in the UK communities.
The programme trains donations made to approved charities.
In the past four years Prudential students and their teachers in key disaster This programme ensures that causes RideLondon has raised 41 million for management skills and supporting the important to employees are given charity and become one of the UKs largest organisation of disaster simulations and charitable consideration and that Jacksons fundraising events.
In 2016 alone, more evacuation drills for students and their support is received by responsible than 740 charities benefited from riders community.
Since 2013, more than 70,000 organisations where funding will create fundraising.
We have renewed our students and 18,000 teachers have a significant impact.
sponsorship for a further three years participated.
The elderly in the community Foundation will continue to support this Prudential UK is a long-standing partner programme and explore further As title sponsor, in 2016 we partnered with of Age UK, working to make a difference partnerships to increase its scale.
three charities Teach First, Greenhouse to the lives of the elderly.
Building on Sports and the Invictus Games Foundation Volunteering to build disasterthe successful Planning for Later Life to provide aspirational challenges for 62 programme the business has launched resilient homes young people and injured service Prudence Foundation continues to provide a new programme Later Life Links.
personnel tackling Prudential RideLondon This is focused on supporting older support to major emergency relief efforts for the first time.
We provided support across the region.
In 2016, support was people in six communities across the including bikes, equipment and training as UK to become more involved in their provided in Cambodia to emergency well as employability and coaching drought response efforts.
The long-term communities, through the provision of workshops.
Over 500,000 was raised as a long-term companionship, advice and commitment of the business to the result of fundraising from Prudential rider Typhoon Haiyan recovery efforts in practical support.
places by our charity partners and Bantayan Island was demonstrated by our employees.
Apprenticeships in the UK sending a team of volunteers to continue Youth unemployment is a huge social Prudential RideLondon has inspired many the building of new houses for the challenge.
As one of the most respected community.
The first 64 houses have been to take control of their health and wellbrands in the UK, Prudential is taking a being.
A BBC2 documentary called Fixing completed and families have now moved major role in helping to shape future job in.
Around 80 volunteers in June supported Dad featured Geoff Whitington, who was prospects for young people.
Over the past encouraged and supported by his sons to the construction of the final 62 houses, three years we have recruited 178 young which were due to be completed by the regain his health and reverse his Type 2 people to our apprenticeship programme, diabetes through significant changes to his end of the first quarter in 2017.
In providing them with important work and September, over 50 regional volunteers diet and lifestyle, including taking on the 66 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report Jacklines story Prudential Scholarship programme, Kenya Jackline is the sixth of eight siblings.
She lives in rural Oloitokitok, and is the first child in her family to go to school, which is something she is very proud of.
She was fortunate to attend primary school, as Masai children are normally expected to take on herding and childcare responsibilities, but did not anticipate that it would be possible for her to continue her education, as her mother is the sole provider for the whole family.
Through the Prudential Scholarship programme with the Kenya Education Fund, Jackline now attends St. Clare Girls High School, where she has taken a keen interest in civil engineering and wants to continue her studies so that she is able to support her community and country by advancing infrastructure.
My friend Beatrice was married when she finished class eight because her parents did not have the money for fees and she now has a child.
I know I was also very close to sharing the same story.
That is why words cant possibly explain how grateful I am to Prudential, because now I know my dreams will come to life.
life skills and starting them on the first step The programme continues to appeal to 2015.
This includes the Chairmans of their careers.
colleagues, with the number of volunteers Challenge hours.
We recognise that signing up increasing year-on-year.
From employee volunteering brings benefit not Support for disadvantaged its launch in 2006, when 2,603 employees only to the charities but also to the communities signed up, volunteer numbers have development of our people, and we M&G continues to care for and enable increased by 208 per cent.
Last year, 8,011 actively encourage colleagues to disadvantaged communities near to its colleagues around the world took part, participate in our programmes.
offices and during 2016 more than 200 volunteering over 27,000 hours to support charities received support either by Charitable donations 30 projects, benefiting over 92,000 donation or as a result of employee We calculate our community investment individuals across the world.
In 2016, M&G held its first spend using the internationally recognised Each volunteering project focuses on one City Giving Week, an onsite event which London Benchmarking Group LBG or more of our CR priorities and allows us to each day showcased and highlighted the standard.
This includes cash donations to support both large, well established services provided by charities that had registered charitable organisations, as well charities and innovative, smaller-scale received support.
The Lord Mayor of the as a cash equivalent for in-kind activities with volunteers as well as City of London attended M&Gs event as contributions.
Prudential donates 150 part of his initiative to promote the varied to our charity partners for every employee In 2016, the Group spent 20 million charitable activities undertaken by City supporting community activities.
The who registers for the programme.
partners use this money to seed-fund direct cash donations to charitable Colleague engagement organisations amounted to 16 million, of charitable projects for Prudential volunteers.
Each year employees across which approximately 5 million came from Successful volunteering programme our UK and EU operations, which are the Group are involved in the voting Chairmans Challenge process to decide on the most innovative principally our UK insurance operation and Many of our employees play an active role M&G.
The remaining 11 million was projects, which receive extra funding in their communities through volunteering, towards their charitable objectives.
contributed to charitable organisations by charitable donations and fundraising.
In the Jackson National Life Insurance Company, UK, the US and Asia we offer our Volunteering across the Group Prudential Corporation Asia and Prudential employees the opportunity to support As well as volunteering efforts on behalf of Africa.
the Chairmans Challenge, employees The cash contribution to charitable around the Group volunteered on a huge Chairmans Challenge is our flagship organisations from our UK and EU range of other charitable projects, from international volunteering programme, operations is broken down as follows: providing relief following disasters to bringing together people from across the education 2,667,000: social, welfare and mentoring schoolchildren, supporting the Group to help in their communities.
environment 2,036,000: cultural elderly and skills-sharing.
In 2016, Colleagues from across the Group give 142,000: and staff volunteering 88,000. employees across the Group volunteered their time and skills to support our global in their communities on a range of projects, charity partners, including Plan The balance includes in-kind donations providing a total of 83,284 hours of International, Help Age International and and is prepared in accordance with LBG volunteering, up from 51,979 hours in Junior Achievement.
This included more than 10,675 www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 67 Corporate responsibility review Continued employees including 8,011 who employees.
We protect all our employees For example, in 2016, PCA rolled out the volunteered for the Chairmans Challenge against discrimination and provide PRU YOU programme to help colleagues who dedicated more than 83,284 hours of opportunities for our people regardless of to achieve personal well-being goals and volunteer service in their communities.
their age, caring responsibilities, disability promote family-friendly practices.
Our Furthermore, over 460,000 was donated status, ethnicity, gender, religion or sexual North America business has expanded the across the Group by our employees orientation.
We make appropriate disability existing College Relations initiative with the through our payroll giving scheme.
adjustments as required, and provide training addition of partnerships with Morehouse and career development opportunities for College, Spelman College and Clark Political donations all.
We give full and fair consideration and Atlanta University in order to support It is the Groups policy neither to make encouragement to all applicants with diversity of ethnicity at entry level.
The donations to political parties nor to incur suitable aptitude and abilities.
apprenticeship programme offered within political expenditure, within the meaning our UK insurance business continued to We aim to foster a working environment of those expressions as defined in demonstrate its success and has recruited where individuals are empowered and the UK Political Parties, Elections and its fourth cohort.
We aspire that Referendums Act 2000.
The Group did the nationality, academic and social over time our senior management better not make any such donations or incur any diversity of its graduate schemes and for represents the experiences and such expenditure in 2016. the first time ensured 50 per cent women background of our customers and on investments schemes.
Valuing our people Office has increased its focus on gender At Prudential we encourage an inclusive The Board monitors progress on diversity diversity through development of talented working environment where we develop and inclusion through quarterly updates women, with 46 per cent female our talent, reward great performance and and the annual talent review process.
participation in available talent recognise our differences in order to programmes.
Africas scholarship We have a strategic, long-term approach to continue to deliver outstanding results programme has supported the education diversity and inclusion at Group level and in for our customers, shareholders and of 628 children in Ghana and Kenya.
each business unit and we invest in communities.
This is achieved through our targeted activity across 10 priority areas We have further developed affinity continued focus on diversity and inclusion, ranging from diversity and inclusionnetworks: M&G Pride for LGBT employees talent development and performance focused development through support for and allies, and the UK-based Prudential and reward.
various affinity groups, including, among Womens Network.
others, ethnicity nationality, gender, LGBT, Diversity and inclusion As part of our broad diversity and inclusion disability, age, social mobility, parenting Prudential believes that diversity of agenda, we have publicly committed to and care.
Across our businesses, our experience, thought and background is having at least 30 per cent of women in commitment to diversity and inclusion is vital to success, both today and in the senior management by the end of 2021 and supported by initiatives such as reviews future.
The Board has therefore decided we have signed the HM Treasury Women of pay and performance management to make diversity and inclusion one of the in Finance Charter.
As an important step in consistency, providing training to staff strategic objectives for Prudential and this direction, we aim to achieve 27 per cent and engaging with recruitment firms to appointed Penny James, Group Chief Risk female representation in senior mitigate unconscious bias, and awareness Officer, to act as executive sponsor for management by the end of 2019. campaigns to diversify the pool of diversity and inclusion.
Our policies and plans support an inclusive culture sensitive to the needs of all Gender diversity within the senior leadership Male Female 76% 2016 2016 24% 83% 2012 2012 17% 68 68 P Pr ru ud fide en nt tiia al l p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 16 6 w ww ww w.. p pr ru ud fide en nt tiia al l.. c co o.. u uk k 02 Strategic report Headcount Notes Total Male Female Chairman and Independent 9 7 2 Non-executive Directors Executive Directors 7 5 2 Group Executive Committee GEC Includes Executive Directors 13 11 2 Senior managers Excludes the Chairman, all Directors and GEC 93 71 22 members 1 Whole company Includes the Chairman, all Directors and GEC 23,673 11,139 12,534 members 1 Excludes PCA joint ventures.
We believe in supporting human rights and personal development and professional We encourage volunteering through acting responsibly and with integrity.
Our learning: and Prudential UK provides a fully which our employees can support our policies are guided by the principles of the differentiated management development communities and acquire new skills.
UNs Universal Declaration of Human offering, distinguishing the requirements See page 67 for further details.
Rights and the International Labour of aspiring managers and experienced Performance and reward Organisations core labour standards.
M&G Real Estate supports career These are also incorporated into our Group development through a fund manager Our reward packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain high-calibre Code of Business Conduct, which sets out job-shadowing programme: and Group the Group values and expected standards Head Office provides innovative people across all levels.
Each individual contributes to the success of the Group and of behaviour for all employees, and in our programmes designed in partnership with Group Outsourcing and Third Party Supply top academic institutions, which offer should be rewarded accordingly.
leadership development and the We recognise and reward high opportunity to gain valuable experience performance while operating a fair and Talent development through relevant business projects.
Reward is People development is essential to deliver linked to the delivery of business goals and Employee engagement our strategy.
The quality of leadership expected behaviours and we ensure that across the Group is fundamental to the An array of initiatives are in place within our rewards for our people are consistent with future growth and success of the business different businesses to drive employee our values and do not incentivise and we therefore review our talent engagement.
Depending on the business inappropriate risk taking.
To enable this, annually, and offer a range of programmes this engagement can start as soon as a new employees are not only regularly assessed that enable our people to continue to grow employee joins us, with an induction on what they have achieved, but also on and develop.
The majority of our programme to learn about the history and how they did so.
programmes are managed by our business strategy of the Group.
Throughout the units, while Group Human Resources employees career, additional opportunities There are recognition initiatives running focuses on tailored programmes for senior may include being offered a number of across our businesses, such as the leaders across the organisation, succession high impact training sessions as well as Prudential Stars awards at Group Head planning for senior roles and development workshops on resilience, managing energy Office, which are made to individuals of our leadership talent pipeline.
We invest and enhancing productivity.
nominated by their colleagues for in succession planning for our leaders and outstanding examples of execution, impact Each of our businesses manages its own critical specialists, and segment our talent and engagement.
We also believe in the intranet, providing all employees with to identify short-, mediumand long-term importance of giving employees the access to regular updates, articles and successors.
We support them with the opportunity to benefit from the Groups internal and external news items relevant appropriate development and career success through share ownership, and to the business and its geographical planning, to ensure that we maintain an operate employee share plans for location.
Each intranet also gets updated appropriate balance of internal progression employees in the UK and Asia.
This with material news from across the Group.
includes PruSharePlus, which enables Some of our businesses hold regular employees in Asia to share in the longerIndividually tailored development offerings are employee open-forums with senior term success of the business, and actively provided for our most senior executives so management, conduct yearly engagement encourages share ownership and they are well prepared to deliver the long-term surveys or organise away-days to discuss engagement.
In 2016, more than the business, our performance and internal 143 senior high-potential individuals Protecting the environment management.
Any highlighted issues are participated in our Group-wide leadership We carefully monitor our environmental then used to improve the way in which we development programmes Impact and work.
In addition, there are informal impact and the management of Agility.
These programmes have been environmental issues is an integral part of opportunities to meet senior managers and developed in partnership and co-delivered facilities to network with both peers and managing the total risks faced by our with world-leading academic institutions.
senior leaders across functions: and Within our businesses there are many well-being programmes to support We have processes in place to measure and examples of our continuing commitment to sustainable high performance.
We also report on our global greenhouse gas talent development.
Prudential have policies to encourage and support GHG emissions, together with waste and Corporation Asia develops CEOs with volunteering for charitable causes.
The water data for the 12 months, October programmes such as cross-company success of our efforts has again been through to September.
In 2016, we experience, which are continually recognised internally and externally.
increased our absolute GHG emissions reviewed, incorporating new thinking and In addition, our businesses in the UK have from our occupied estate and companyfuture capabilities as required.
In the US, owned vehicles by 1 per cent to 72,568 a long-standing relationship with the Jackson University provides a highly union Unite.
The 2 2 customisable approach for associates www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 69 Corporate responsibility review Continued increase was driven by growth in our East offices in Hong Kong through LED integrated within M&G Real Estates business and increased data centre activity.
lighting, daylight sensors, energy and day-to-day investment practices.
Carbon When normalised against net lettable floor water-efficient appliances and a green emissions from the investment portfolio of area, our GHG emissions efficiency metric living wall in reception.
M&G Real Estate have halved over the past 2 improved by 7 per cent to 123 kgCOe m four years.
It has achieved six Green Stars 2 We maintained our sector positioning in 2 in 2016 2015: 132 kgCOe m and 2015: four Green Stars in the 2016 Global 2 key benchmarks, including the Carbon 12 per cent over the past three years Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Disclosure Project, with a B rating in 2016 2 2013: 139 kgCOe m driven through survey out of eight participating funds.
2 level with our peers, and ClimateWise, our energy efficiency efforts focusing on M&G Real Estates progress can be found the insurance sector climate initiative the larger properties in the portfolio.
This in its annual Responsible Property managed by the Cambridge Institute for data refers to Scope 1 and 2 only.
co. uk Sustainability Leadership, maintaining our institutions realestate responsibleWe continue to deploy energy position of ninth out of 19 participants investing management strategies across our www.
A new 100 per cent renewable sustainable-finance climatewise.
Our We expect continued developments on energy contract for electricity purchased performance in ClimateWise against six environmental factors in the years ahead, for our UK occupied property estate was core principles is independently audited.
including increasing disclosure of introduced during the year, replacing an climate-related risks and opportunities for M&G Real Estate forms part of the M&G earlier low carbon energy contract.
The work of the group of companies, the asset business increased the Energy Star Financial Stability Board in particular could management arm of Prudential plc in the performance score for its Corporate Head be a major development in the transition UK and Europe.
Its approach to responsible Office in Lansing by 80 per cent over the to a low-carbon economy, with its property investment enables it to manage year, placing it in the top 20 per cent of its guidance on strategy, risk management, and respond to the growing range of type in the country https: www.
metrics and reporting on climate risks environmental and social issues that can energystar.
It also helps M&G following an earlier energy efficient re-fit.
 Estate to protect and enhance fund In Asia, we delivered our first LEED Gold  asset performance for its clients.
certified refurbishment for our One Island disclosure Responsible property investment is Micheles story Jackson, US Michele Fedewa, Jacksons Strategic Support programme manager, has championed the adoption of recycling and composting programmes as part of Jackson Smartcycle in its Lansing offices.
There has been a tremendous amount of interest for more recycling options in the office.
The business sent approximately 1,138,000lbs of refuse in Lansing to landfill in 2015 and the aim of this new programme is to reduce waste sent to the landfill to zero.
Many of our associates are students at Michigan State University and already recycle on campus.
Ive had numerous employees reach out to me with ideas and questions about how we can make more of a difference environmentally.
Were thrilled to support this programme and see it make an impact on reducing our carbon footprint.
70 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report electricity, heat or steam emissions where from the UK, global water consumption Prudential plc greenhouse gas operational control of the emissions of the occupied and investment properties and emissions statement sources concerned was demonstrated.
The waste reporting covers, all We have compiled our greenhouse gas investment properties with operational emissions data in accordance with the We have also reported on a number of control, UK and US occupied properties.
Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Scope 3 emissions as a matter of best We do not currently collect waste data for Directors Reports Regulations 2013. practice.
These are emissions arising as a our occupied buildings in Asia and consequence of the activities of the We have included full reporting for Scope 1 continental Europe.
We are continuously company, but occur from sources not direct emissions such as combustion of working with our business units to review owned or controlled by the company.
For gas for heating fugitive emissions and the extent of our Scope 3 reporting and the purpose of 2016 report, these Scope 3 emissions from owned vehicles and Scope increase where practicable.
1 emissions include: business travel booked 2 indirect emissions for consumption of Baseline year: 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015 Assessment parameters Reporting year: 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016 Assurance Deloitte LLP has provided limited assurance over selected environmental metrics in accordance with the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Boards ISAE3000 Revised international standard.
co. uk responsibility performance  Consolidation approach Operational control.
Boundary summary All entities and all facilities under operational control including those owned are included.
Consistency with the financial statements The reporting period 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016 does not correspond with the Directors Report period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016.
The reporting period was brought forward by three months to improve the availability of invoice data which often lags by one month or more after the usage period and reduce the reliance on estimated data.
Prudential owns assets, which are held on its balance sheet in the financial statements, over which it does not have operational control.
These are excluded from the data below.
Assets not included on the balance sheet but held under an operating lease and where we have operational control are included.
Emission factor data source We have used the UK DEFRA 2016 GHG Conversion Factors for Scope 1 and 3 reporting and the IEA GHG 2016 conversion factors for global Scope 2 reporting.
Assessment methodology The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 2004.
In 2016 Prudential reviewed its reporting methodology for Scope 2 electricity emissions in recognition of the release of the revised GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance that requires both location and market-based reporting.
As the Group operates in a number of mature and emerging markets, the availability of market-based factors that met the necessary quality criteria was deemed insufficient for reporting, and as such our 2016 reporting continues to use the location-based factors already available.
Intensity ratio Kilograms of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent per metre squared net lettable area.
Note 1 This is calculated using location-based methodology GHG protocol.
m Occupied Estate 123 132 135 139 2 Investments 14 18 13 15 Total Scope 1 and 2 kg COe sq.
m 43 47 30 33 2 Note 1 Comparative 2015 data for normalised emissions have been restated due to a methodology change for accounting for floor area.
Please refer to the Basis of reporting at www.
co. uk responsibility performance  for further detail.
Due to the changing size and nature of the environmental data is collected for investment portfolio, absolute and properties at acquisition and at date of normalised comparisons between years divestment therefore comparisons for are not comparative.
Net lettable area is absolute change and normalised change reported for all properties held within the are not directly comparative.
In line with best practice, 72 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report Accountability and governance Risk assessment for corporate responsibility For more information on the risks facing our business see page 50.
The Board The Board regularly reviews the Groups Supply chain management corporate responsibility performance and It is our policy to work in partnership with scrutinises and approves the Group third parties whose values and standards corporate responsibility report and are aligned with our Group Code of strategy on an annual basis.
Local governance Procurement practices in Prudential UK We believe that CR is best managed on the have been successfully accredited with the ground by our people running the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and businesses.
In M&G, Jackson and Supply certification, an industry Prudential UK there are governance benchmark of recognised good practice.
committees in place with senior Prudential will publish its Modern Slavery management representation that agree statement later in the year.
In Asia, the Prudence Foundation has been established as a unified charitable platform to align and maximise the impact of community efforts across the region.
The Prudence Foundation is governed by a statutory Board of Directors, under which a Board of Trustees operates as a decision-making forum, directing the management of the programmes in collaboration with our local markets, and ensuring that we maximise the value of our spend to local communities.
Code of Business Conduct Consideration of environmental, social and community matters is integrated in our Code of Business Conduct.
Our code is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Refer to page 69 for more information.
Strategic report approval by the Board of Directors The strategic report set out on pages 9 to 73 is approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Mike Wells Group Chief Executive 13 March 2017 www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 73 0 1Groupoverview 0 2Strategicreport 0 03 3 G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e    EEV basisresults  03 Governance 76 Chairmans introduction 77 Board of Directors 82 How we operate 82 Board roles and governance 84 Board decision making 86 Board effectiveness 88 Diversity 88 Shareholder engagement 89 Further information on Directors 90 Risk management and internal control 92 Committee reports 106 Statutory and regulatory disclosures 107 Additional information 108 Index to principal Directors report disclosures
