3 3 e g a P y t i l i b i s n o p s e R e Corporate responsibility Committed to our stakeholders Trust is the foundation of how we do business and 2016 highlights manifests itself in everything we do: our relationships Skills development withourcustomers and stakeholders, industry partners, Launch of the QinetiQ Academy andshareholders.
It also drives how our people work with page 27 The 5% Club grows to over 160 each other.
We know that we can contribute to our future members page 27 success and provide wider value to society through focusing on the skills and competences of our people and the next Health and safety generation, supporting our customers sustainability agendas, Safe for Life rolling out across the UK page 28 our commitment to environmental stewardship and having a positive impact in the communities where we work.
Environmental stewardship ISO 50001 certification of our energy management system page 31 There are some elements which will always The skills agenda, with an emphasis on 2017 priorities be business priorities, such as the safety of apprenticeships, new energy management our people and our approach to governance.
regulations and the introduction of the Skills development However, we also recognise that we need to Modern Slavery Act all have an impact on Developing our people to support anticipate and understand emerging issues our business.
Addressing them is integrated our growth agenda and trends.
into our programmes, ensuring our approach to corporate responsibility does not stand still and fully supports the success Engagement of our people of our business.
Improving the way we engage with our people Our framework Health and safety Further roll out of Safe for Life Environmental stewardship Continual improvement of our Our People energy management system Page 27 4 2 Community Business Sustainable Ethics Investment Solutions Page 32 Page 33 Page 29 3 Environment Page 30 26 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 t a r o p r o C g n i g a n a M Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information O u r p eo p l e By having the right people, ensuring they are engaged, creating a positive working environment and supporting their development, we can deliver to our customers.
There is a recognised shortfall of engineering skills so focusing on the skills of our people as well as the future pipeline is vital also see community investment section, page 32.
L earning and development We have been focusing on how we provide opportunities The 5% Club for developing skills.
Investing in a Generation The skills of the next generation are The breadth and depth of knowledge and capability of our people the foundation of the future of QinetiQ.
is key to delivering for our customers.
The 5% Club, launched in 2013 and spearheaded by QinetiQ, Page 03 Our business model has gone from strength to strength, with membership at over 160 at 31 March 2016 including large and small companies from The QinetiQ Academy was established in April 2015, addressing a range of sectors.
Members that sign up to The 5% Club pledge the business need to drive effectiveness quality, consistency to have 5% of their UK workforce on apprenticeships, formal and standards and in response to our peoples appetite to learn, graduate schemes or as student sponsorships.
By encouraging develop and give more to our company articulated in our employers to offer great earn and learn opportunities for Engagement Surveys.
There are three faculties: young people, we see this as a key step in developing the future The People Faculty delivers management and leadership skills, knowledge and experience needed across the UK.
development from early careers to executive level.
The Engineering, Science and Technical EST Faculty delivers As part of QinetiQs commitment to the development of the training to sustain and develop the highly specialised skills next generation, we reviewed our UK graduate scheme and the essential to meet our customers challenges.
People Faculty launched a new two-year corporate graduate The Business Faculty delivers skills and competences such as development framework, bringing graduates together where marketing, business development, negotiation and sales through previously separate schemes were run by each business.
to project management, assurance and health and safety.
Page 23 Apprentices and graduates KPI Underpinning the Academy is the QinetiQ Learning Zone QLZ which provides one-stop online access for our peoples learning needs.
The Assumption 2016 2015 2014 full functionality has been developed for QinetiQ UK and accessibility Number of apprentices 150 208 121 to the QLZ will be increased across the Group.
The EST Faculty has Number of graduates on formal programmes 135 102 106 facilitated our first cohort of ten delegates on the Systems Number of sponsored students 26 8 17 Engineering Masters Apprenticeship Programme SEMAP.
This is a Percentage of UK workforce 5.7% 5.9% 4.8% three to five-year programme of blended vocational and academic learning at Masters level developed by the Defence Growth Partnership to address an enterprise wide skills gap in systems engineering.
Learning and development highlights in FY16 include: The course catalogue has grown from 70 to over 140 courses.
Accreditation obtained for a further three years from the Association for Project Management.
Launch of refreshed coaching and mentoring capabilities.
Innovation of course delivery through gamification.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 Corporate responsibility continued E ngaging our people Safety, health and wellbeing Diversity and inclusion Engaged employees are motivated to Health and wellbeing of our people sits The inclusion, diversity and equality of reach their full potential.
Improving at the heart of operations and underpins all our people is critical to our strategy.
employee engagement forms an our strategic goals.
important part of our strategy and In order to support our approach, we value isone of our non-financial KPIs.
We continue to focus on reducing accidents working with specialist networks in each of and work-related ill health as part of our our home markets.
QNA is a member of the continuous improvement activity.
We measure Direct Employers Association which provides Pa ge 23 Employee engagement KPI overall Lost Time Incident LTI Rate as recruiting solutions with a strong focus on a lagging indicator for the Group.
QinetiQ Australia is We regularly communicate with employees a member of the Diversity Council Australia to ensure they understand QinetiQ strategy, Pa ge 22 Health and safety KPI and has established a diversity and inclusion performance and business priorities.
In 2015 strategy which has been endorsed by the Q-Talk was introduced as a monthly briefing LTI Rate is highly dependent on the number of Australian Board and Australian Leadership and discussion session.
Through Q-Talk employees calculated as the number of lost Team.
The UK continues to be a core member and numerous other channels such as the time incidents, where the employee is away of, and work with, the Employers Network intranet, campaigns and roadshows we can from work for one or more days, times 1,000 of Equality and Inclusion, using their tools to ensure that our people across the Group divided by the total number of employees.
The Group is committed understand how what they do contributes The LTIR has reduced from 5.6 to 5.0. to the fair treatment of people with to our strategy and they are knowledgeable disabilities in relation to applications, about our business.
Lost Time Incident Rate 2016 2015 2014 training, promotion and career development.
QinetiQ Group 5.0 5.6 5.8 If an existing employee becomes disabled, Our UK Employee Engagement Group we make every effort to enable them to EEG is an independent consultative forum.
In 2014 we introduced Safe for Life into continue their employment and career The EEG listens, gathers feedback and our UK Weapons business.
Safe for Life development, and to arrange appropriate represents our people on all key employee focuses on behavioural safety including training, wherever practicable.
The related matters local or company-wide safety leadership, human factors, error breakdown of the number of employees by and through times of change.
The management and everyday behaviours gender at the end of March 2016 is shown representatives are the employee voice to of our people.
The programme is in the table below.
constructively challenge policy decisions underpinned by a Safety Culture Climate Female Male and actions that have an effect on Survey and supported by local champions.
Board Directors 2 7 employees working lives or wellbeing.
The pilot programme has been completed 1 Senior Managers 28 170 successfully and we are rolling Safe for Life 2 We undertake an annual independent All employees 1,190 4,817 out into other UK business areas.
survey for all employees across the Group, 1 Excluding Board Directors.
excluding QinetiQ North America QNA, 2 There were no safety prosecutions or Excluding Senior Managers and Board Directors.
This survey allows prohibition notices issued by regulators in the us to gain feedback and an accurate picture UK in FY16.
A single improvement notice was of how our people feel about a number issued to the company during the UK Health of aspects of our business.
The response and Safety Executives ongoing investigation rate in FY16 was 68% and we scored 623 of an incident at one of the sites we manage on compared to 613 in FY15, putting us in behalf of the MOD.
The improvement actions the ones to watch category.
The survey identified required the review of schematics for identifies specific areas where we can work the high voltage electrical system on the site.
to improve performance and engagement The required actions have been completed, and leaders respond through action plans the Improvement Notice formally closed and on priority areas.
lessons shared across the organisation.
QNA use Workplace Dynamics to We continue to develop our health and administer the Top Work Places survey wellbeing programmes.
The UK Wellbeing and will be conducting it for the second programme and QinetiQ Benefits scheme year in FY17.
in the UK are offering more services, with good uptake by our people.
Health assessments Pa ge 88 Directors measuring BMI, blood pressure and cholesterol remuneration report and flu vaccinations continue to be popular.
28 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Sustainable solutions Providing customers with solutions to reduce fuel use can help with cost efficiencies but also meet their sustainability agenda.
Customers recognise the importance of sustainable products and services to enable greater efficiency and resilience.
While it is not core business, we regularly provide solutions for our customers, across a breadth of technology areas including: Training and simulation: allowing troops and aircrew to train in sophisticated simulated environments, reducing the need for costly and energy intensive activities.
Unmanned Aerial Vehicles UAVs : QinetiQ, in partnership with the Welsh Government and Snowdonia Aerospace LLP, ran an event at the Snowdonia Aerospace Centre in Llanbedr to demonstrate how UAVs flown from the airfield can help to tackle environmental issues and other commercial challenges.
Maritime: improved propulsion efficiency resulting in reduced fuel consumption and noise vibration Product safety Supply chain management pollution.
QinetiQ has also completed Delivering products and services safely and sustainable procurement work to ensure ships comply with the fundamentally underpins our offering At QinetiQ, we believe that our supply Energy Efficiency Design Index which to customers.
chain is an extension of our own is unique to the maritime industry.
organisation, and so we take care Batteries: QinetiQ is part of a project We invest in attracting and developing our inensuring that it is as committed called 3CCAR targeting Integrated engineers and scientists with specialist safety tothesame standards of safety, Components for Complexity Control expertise.
In the UK, technical assurance, securityand governance as we are.
in affordable electrified cars, focusing governance and Independent Design particularly on smart battery cells, Review have been fully integrated into The goods and services that we procure are which will help improve effectiveness our day-to-day business delivery processes largely high-end technology or Commercial of electric cars.
and are underpinned by our Through-Life Off the Shelf COTS products, or high end Engine efficiency: the hub drive Engineering principles.
These principles are consultancy and research services.
Most of provides an entirely new approach.
applied to all our customer and internal our spend is within our home territories UK, projects.
High Integrity Systems are delivered US and Australia where instances of bribery, Pa ge 21 next-generation using our specifically developed principles corruption and modern slavery practices hub motors and independently assured throughout their are lower than other parts of the world.
Continuous improvement is driven However, this does not mean that we Modelling of wind turbine interactions by our Engineering, Science and Technical are complacent.
In the UK, we have a very with radars which assists the planning Leadership Team, supported by independent robust approach to supply chain risk, which processes to support the renewable assurance and specialist safety expertise.
is now being rolled out across the Group, energy industry.
This includes: We have significantly enhanced our Page 18 Radar impact assessment Supplier vetting for all suppliers approach to independent assurance and risk for infringement of UN Sanctions assessment.
QinetiQ actively supports Robust prequalification of suppliers to collaboration with the MOD and specialist an industry set level through a third party organisations to develop and implement Risk assessment and third party vetting common safety standards and practices.
of high risk spend categories for modern slavery UK and human trafficking under Our US business continues to use technical US Federal Acquisition Regulations FAR : excellence to improve and develop the safety Robust Terms and Conditions enabling us and usability of their products.
to take corrective action against suppliers not acting in an ethical manner.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29 Corporate responsibility continued Environment We integrate care of the environment into our business operations and our delivery of test and evaluation.
Environmental stewardship Aberporth: Use of remote visual and The drive and enthusiasm with which acoustic marine monitoring systems for our people, guided by a team of skilled The challenges of protecting the protection of mammals.
These measures, environmental professionals, embrace sound environment and wildlife, in locations used together with acoustic deterrent devices environmental practice have contributed in the conduct of defence and security ADD and physical checks, have provided to our performance across the year: related test and evaluation trials, can protection for species including appear daunting.
Our own QinetiQ estate Our waste recycling arrangements and bottlenose dolphins, harbour porpoise and MOD LTPA sites are located across levels have been further enhanced: and grey seals.
the UK, with significant marine and 84% compared with 76% for FY15.
West Freugh: Trials timed to avoid land environmental considerations, Work has been conducted disturbance of breeding birds and encompassing European and UK protected to collect, understand and interrogate to protect great crested newts.
The use of structured planning water consumption and travel Hebrides RAF trial: SA process resulted in processes, in combination with innovative information, with a view to identifying agreement for missile airburst detonation solutions, robust technology and skilled additional improvement programmes.
instead of at sea surface to reduce employees, has enabled the elimination or We have initiated transition to any potential sea mammal impacts.
minimisation of environmental risks from the new ISO 14001 Environmental Hebrides ASD15 trial page 17 : modified diverse trial activities.
existing concrete platform to shelter and application of sustainability appraisals We have made considerable progress rocket and launch infrastructure to SA from early in the trial planning phase in energy management see page 31. prevent the risk of damage to the Site of continues to support prompt identification Special Scientific Interest SSSI habitat.
of potential impacts and careful selection of mitigation measures.
Examples include: Celebrating our 20-year partnership with Marwell Wildlife Protecting and restoring Eelmoor Marsh QinetiQs head office site in Farnborough, Our relationship with Marwell Wildlife began UK, includes Eelmoor Marsh which was in 1995 with the need for conservation designated a national Site of Special grazing but over the 20 years has become Scientific Interest in 1978 and is a hotspot much broader and is vital to the success of for biodiversity.
Covering more than 79 the project, says Dr Sam Healy, Group hectares, Eelmoor Marsh supports more Corporate Responsibility Director, QinetiQ.
than 400 species of conservation concern Highland cattle and endangered Przewalskis across grassland, lowland heath, bog and horses are employed to help control scrub mire, including six species of insectivorous and grass encroachment and have become plants, 11 species of orchid, the rare nail an integral part of long-term restoration of fungus, over a third of Britains dragonfly the lowland heath system.
One-third of and damselfly species, around 60% of Eelmoor Marsh has already been restored Britains butterfly species, four out of six from pine woodland, and 157 survey reports native species of reptile, and bird species and 17 student projects have been produced including woodlark, nightjar and lapwing.
creating a wealth of valuable information The site forms part of the Thames Basin about this special site.
Natural England has Heaths Special Protection Area SPA, confirmed favourable condition status notified in 2005 following the arrival of the across all three units on site.
Dartford Warbler and provides excellent undisturbed habitat for specialist heathland Employees can also access and enjoy this birds.
In partnership with British conservation special place during the week, and experts charity Marwell Wildlife we have managed from Marwell regularly provide guided tours this ecologically sensitive location for over for employees.
their time to support the project.
30 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Greenhouse gas emissions In 2015 we continued our Energy Matters The table below provides a summary of the programme, communicating with our people Groups GHG emissions from 1 April 2015 to and energy management see below, growing our network of Energy 31 March 2016, giving a summary of Scope 1 Saving energy reduces our impact on Champions and empowering our Energy fuel combustion and operation of facilities theenvironment and makes us more Engineers to identify and implement energy and Scope 2 purchased electricity emissions efficient.
We continue to submit and an intensity ratio per m of revenue.
voluntarily to the Carbon Disclosure Project We have adopted a financial control The highlight for FY16 was our certification Climate Change Programme, and are approach and have used the Defra 2015 to ISO 50001 BS EN ISO 50001:2011 Energy registered for the Carbon Reduction emissions factors.
Management System which recognises Commitment CRC scheme.
In 2015 we the systems and processes put in place by the met the requirements of ESOS the Energy Our emissions have reduced overall due to UK organisation to enable us to effectively Savings Opportunity Scheme through a more efficient use of our estate.
We are on manage our energy consumption.
We will combination of ISO 50001 Certification and track to meet our target of reducing GHG now use the framework established by the an energy audit report produced by our emissions due to UK energy use by 17% by introduction of ISO 50001 to continually appointed ESOS Lead Assessor.
Our GHG data improve our approach to energy management were independently reviewed and next year and strive to embed energy efficiency best Our Group greenhouse gas GHG emissions will be independently verified.
practice across the UK business.
are captured to meet the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic report As part of this continual improvement, we and Directors report Regulations 2013. will be reviewing our energy performance 2016 2015 2014 indicators and targets to provide an Total Scope 1 emissions tCO e 23,183 26,534 27,590 2 improvement in the way we measure the Total Scope 2 emissions tCO e 36,722 39,668 38,371 2 success of our energy management activities Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO e 59,905 66,202 65,960 2 and projects.
Intensity ratio tCO e per m of revenue 79 87 55 2 Example employee communication as part of Energy Matters QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 Corporate responsibility continued Community investment QinetiQ is committed to having a positive impact in the communities where we operate.
A particular focus is contributing our professional skills through employee volunteering.
We believe its the right thing to do and is one way that we play our part in tackling issues such asyouth unemployment and skills shortages, particularly in the areaof STEM Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths.
Across the Group we have various ways of our sites for school groups on National public access.
The officers have created a that our people can volunteer and use their Women in Engineering Day, a space themed number of information channels including skills to make a positive difference to their day to celebrate the launch of Principia: web and text services.
In the UK and within British ESA European Space Agency OptaSense we provide our people with astronaut Tim Peakes six-month mission In the UK we continue to support our three time and access to a bursary.
In Australia, to the International Space Station see case corporate charities Cancer Research UK, a programme called Operation Give Back study below, and we have hosted the UK Help for Heroes and RNLI by providing enables employees to volunteer as Cyber Security Challenge.
QinetiQs Space matched funding for employee fundraising individuals or in teams for one day a year, business in Belgium participates in STEM activities.
These charities were voted for by and employees in Belgium also volunteer outreach programmes such as Technoteens.
employees and form a five-year partnership during work time.
Because the majority of QinetiQ is a signatory of the Your Life with QinetiQ.
In the US, employees focus on our people are technical professionals, our campaign, and our priorities are to supporting wounded military and their focus is our STEM outreach programme encourage our people to take part in STEM families by contributions to a range of with the aim of inspiring the next generation outreach programmes, and to ensure that specialist organisations such as Home Base, of scientists and engineers.
We value our we are reaching more girls.
Our non-STEM a Red Sox baseball Foundation and relationships with organisations such as employees also use their professional skills Massachusetts General Hospital program STEMNET, the Arkwright Scholarship Trust, in the communities where we operate dedicated to healing the invisible wounds Primary Engineer and the Social Mobility through programmes such as Young of war for Service Members.
In Australia, Foundation in the UK and various robotics Enterprise and they offer mentoring we have agreed a two-year partnership with education programmes in the US.
through the Social Mobility Foundation.
the Australian War Memorial in Canberra to provide in-kind advisory services and With a variety of STEM expertise amongst Being a good neighbour is an important part engineering support for aircraft installation our people, our UK STEM Ambassadors have of our approach to our communities.
Our people can also choose to give organised a wide range of outreach events necessary we have dedicated Community to their chosen charity pre-tax through for school children: such as the annual Liaison Officers who engage with local payroll giving in the UK.
Powerboat Challenge, activities at a number communities on issues such as noise and STEM Outreach Inspiring the next generation Engineers from our Farnborough site welcomed more than 90 pupils from 12 Hampshire and Surrey schools for a special STEM Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths event to celebrate the launch of Principia: British ESA European Space Agency astronaut Tim Peakes six month mission to the ISS International Space Station.
The pupils and their teachers were invited to join some of our colleagues and STEM Ambassadors to watch the live launch of Tim Peake and his colleagues in the Soyuz rocket to the ISS.
With a team of QinetiQ engineering.
Following this, the pupils the experiments will be performed by Tim experts on hand to answer questions about received a tour of QinetiQs space Peake while he is on board the ISS and will human spaceflight, the pupils learned about testing facilities.
transmit live data back to Earth.
By learning the mission and about potential careers in about the real-world applications of STEM the space industry.
The pupils then In addition to hosting this event, as a subjects with our STEM Ambassadors at completed their own challenge to design, technology partner with the Raspberry Pi outreach activities such as the Principia build and launch bottle rockets with Foundation, our graduates have developed launch party at Farnborough, and by mentoring from QinetiQ STEM Ambassadors.
hardware and software for AstroPi.
AstroPi is participating in projects such as AstroPi, The teams were judged on their rocket a Raspberry Pi mini-computer loaded with our aim is to inspire the next generation design, teamwork, highest flight and experiments written by UK school children: of scientists and engineers.
32 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Business ethics Managing A critical element of winning business, in our home corporate markets and internationally, is that our customers trust us to work in an ethical manner.
responsibility Our Code of Conduct lays out our ethical We provide more in-depth anti-bribery Governance standards, providing employees with clear training for those in higher risk roles, for We have Board and executive level direction and guidance on how we do example those who carry out overseas commitment to corporate responsibility business across the Group.
Our anti-bribery programmes are through the Group Risk & CSR Committee and on ethical decision-making and also how to overseen by our Chief Ethics Officers, who this ensures successful delivery of responsible get help.
We regularly update the Code are senior executives.
We embed the risk of business practice, driven by strong leadership of Conduct and we plan to review it in FY17.
bribery into our international business risk and governance.
The Committee receives management process.
This year we have reports and briefings on all material corporate QinetiQ.
com code-of-conduct undertaken a review and update of our responsibility issues including business ethics, procedures associated with commercial health and safety, environment, reputational Our annual business ethics training is a intermediaries.
In QNA, the Proxy mandatory requirement for all of our people Board oversees these activities, obtaining and supports them in understanding and Pa ge 42 Principal risks and independent assurance on the adequacy of its using the Code of Conduct.
The training is uncertainties compliance programmes on an ongoing basis.
also undertaken by our Board and is available In FY17 we will be introducing a Business Ethics for our suppliers and customers.
As well Committee, chaired by the Chief Ethics Officer Human rights as explaining the Code of Conduct, our and including members of the Executive and QinetiQ recognises that the UN Guiding approach is to provide a number of the Group Corporate Responsibility Director.
Principles on Business and Human Rights set challenging scenarios to help our people a standard of conduct expected of know what to do if they were to come across The Groups policies and management systems companies.
We seek to anticipate, prevent issues such as bribery, fraud, discrimination, underpin our corporate responsibility and mitigate potential negative human rights conflict of interest and modern slavery.
In the UK, the business assurance impacts through our policy and process, and tool provides internal assurance and we have through our Code of Conduct and business Employees are provided with a number of the external certification ISO 14001 for our ethics training for employees, all of which routes to seek help or raise concerns.
They environmental management system, ISO 50001 underpin our commitment to responsible are encouraged to talk to a manager if they for energy management see page 31, ISO 9001 business conduct.
QinetiQ has policies in have a concern and are provided with contact for our quality management system and OHSAS place, among others, to support adherence details for our ethics email advice services 18001 for our health and safety management to export controls, health and safety, and our independently run, 24 7 confidential system.
Additionally, QNAs Quality Management non-discrimination, anti-bribery and reporting line.
We have also communicated System is certified to AS9100C and ISO environmental laws and guidance.
This is with managers to remind them of the need 9001:2008. further supported by our procedures on to act if employees come to them with product safety, sustainable procurement, issues.
We have provided help and advice due diligence and risk management.
Materiality and engaging in response to all queries received via our We monitor the application of these policies with our stakeholders ethics email advice services and all and procedures through our business Our corporate responsibility strategy reflects the communication through the confidential assurance processes.
We believe that this material issues for our business defined by our reporting line is appropriately investigated.
We have overall business strategy and taking into account recently implemented a more structured stakeholder priorities.
In line with our new vision, Anti-bribery and corruption approach to understanding human rights strategy and way of working, in FY17 we will be Bribery is a serious issue across the world risk within our international business risk reviewing our priorities.
Part of our materiality and we recognise this is a potential risk to our management process.
We have also been assessment is understanding the priorities of our business.
We have a zero-tolerance approach working to improve our approach to human stakeholders primarily customers, investors to bribery and corruption and have put in rights risk in the supply chain.
We have set up and employees.
This is achieved through regular place a range of governance measures.
a working group to look at the particular issue dialogue such as investor meetings, involvement Anti-bribery risk management is embedded of modern slavery and have updated policies in the MOD-Industry Sustainable Procurement in our business processes: we have a process and introduced new training and KPIs.
Our Working Group and our employee engagement for undertaking due diligence, monitoring statement on modern slavery and human programmes see page 28.
We are actively and auditing of our use of commercial trafficking is published on our website.
engaged with industry and trade body working intermediaries, and we use expert third-party groups on topics such as skills, environment and providers of due diligence where appropriate.
We are a Patron Member of the Institute of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability ICRS and have been actively involved in the development of the Institute, in recognition of the importance of supporting and developing the CR profession.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33
