SUSTAINABILITY REPORT S USTA IN A B ILIT Y R E PO RT 2 016 INVESTING IN A SUSTAINABLE LEGACY RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 105 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 % % 22 LTIFR DECREASE 37 VOLUNTARY TESTING AND LOWEST IN 21-YEAR HISTORY COUNSELLING FOR HIV 0 FATALITIES % $420 million 3% 36 OF POWER SOURCED FROM CLEAN GOODS AND SERVICES PROCURED ENERGY FROM LOCAL SUPPLIERS % 345 km 18 WATER WITHDRAWAL EFFICIENCY OF NATIONAL ROADS MAINTAINED IMPROVEMENT RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 106 % 1% 28 MALARIA INCIDENCE $6.32 million 13 000 INVESTED IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES MOSQUITO NETS DISTRIBUTED MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS 0 MEDIUM LOWEST LEVEL FOR 39ha CLASS 1INCIDENT DECREASE IN TOTAL DISTURBED LAND 7 years ALL MINES RETAINED 1 UPDATED ESIA ISO 14001 LAUNCHED AT MASSAWA AS PROJECT MOVES TO FEASIBILITY STAGE AND 1 OHSAS 18001 E nvironmental and Social Impact Assessment ESIA CERTIFICATES RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 107 INVESTING IN A INVESTING IN A SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE LEGACY LEGACY FOREWORD AND INTRODUCTION Sustainability at a glance OUR Background to our countries GOVERNANCE of operation and the Sustainable Development Goals 1 OF SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability targets at a glance Scope and boundary of this report Corporate sustainability policies Management systems FOR for sustainability OUR Emergency risk 2 PEOPLE planning Safety first Stakeholder engagement Occupational health Recruitment and retention Grievance mechanism Training and succession planning Materiality assessment Industrial relations Artisanal mining Gender equality pg 114 Plans & priorities for 2017 pg 124 FOR OUR 4 PLANET Overview of environmental FOR OUR management HOST COUNTRIES Managing climate risk 3 AND COMMUNITIES Managing water risk Stewardship of biodiversity Creating national Waste management economic value Air quality Developing sustainable Plans & priorities for 2017 pg 156 local supply chains Community development Health in the community Closure planning Human rights and APPENDIX 1: MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT security forces PURPOSE AND METHODOLOGY pg 171 Resettlement Nos Vies en Partage Plans & priorities for 2017 pg 136 RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 108 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PLAN IS INVESTING IN A OUR BUSINESS PLAN SUSTAINABLE LEGACY When Randgold first set out to build an Africa focused gold mining company that delivered value to all stakeholders, we made sustainability the foundation of our business model.
Twenty-one years later, we can clearly see how that FOREWORD AND INTRODUCTION commitment positively impacts both our companys profit Sustainability at a glance OUR margins and the development of our host countries and Background to our countries GOVERNANCE of operation and the Sustainable Development Goals communities.
1 OF SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability targets at a glance Scope and boundary of this report Corporate sustainability policies Management systems FOR For example in 2016 we saw our malaria programme for sustainability Building a health and safety culture OUR drive down the incidence of this disease further, and Emergency risk Our top sustainability priority is the health and safety 2 PEOPLE therefore absenteeism dropped by over 12%.
Our planning of our workforce and I am pleased to report a 22% increased use of clean energy decreased power Safety first Stakeholder drop in our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR costs.
And we also saw our business change lives.
engagement Occupational health to the lowest rate in our history, along with zero Recruitment and retention From the schools near our Gounkoto mine, where Grievance mechanism fatalities.
We also made progress in areas such as Training and succession planning the pass rates were transformed from the worst in Materiality assessment the fight against HIV AIDS, our management of water Industrial relations the region to one of the best in the country: to the risk and our recruitment and retention of the best Artisanal mining story of deaf six year-old Nassara Coulibaly who was talent from host countries.
Gender equality given an opportunity to participate at the Randgoldpg 114 Plans & priorities for 2017 pg 124 sponsored Cte dIvoire golf academy and who was The year also had many challenges.
For example, subsequently examined by Randgold medics, who unexpectedly high rainfall in Cte dIvoire led to found a treatment to help her hear for the first time.
increased water abstraction and a downturn in our water recycling rate: and in DRC demonstrations As detailed in this report, we have tried to deepen by the artisanal mining community early in the year our impact further this year by aligning our led to the destruction of property and required FOR sustainability efforts with the UNs Sustainable government intervention.
The latter was ultimately OUR Development Goals.
turned into a catalyst for greater engagement 4 PLANET from the government and led to the peaceful and Overview of environmental FOR OUR successful relocation of many illegal artisanal management HOST COUNTRIES miners.
Managing climate risk 3 AND COMMUNITIES Managing water risk We cannot rest on our laurels.
Sustainability is part Stewardship of biodiversity Creating national of our DNA and in 2017 we will continue to work in Waste management economic value partnership with all our stakeholders to maintain a Air quality Developing sustainable Plans & priorities for 2017 pg 156 sustainably profitable business that also protects our local supply chains environment and promotes economic development Community development Health in the community in all our host countries.
Closure planning Human rights and APPENDIX 1: MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT security forces PURPOSE AND METHODOLOGY pg 171 Resettlement Nos Vies en Partage Plans & priorities for 2017 pg 136 Mark Bristow Chief executive RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 109 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOREWORD AND INTRODUCTION CONTINUED BACKGROUND ON OUR COUNTRIES OF OPERATION Randgold is an Africa focused gold mining and As our sustainability efforts seek to create positive exploration business set up in 1995 with the aim social, economic and environmental outcomes of delivering long term value for all stakeholders.
we believe that they are well aligned with many Most of our countries of operation are emerging of the goals of the United Nations Sustainable from years of political instability, civil unrest and Development Goals SDGs.
As shown below we or financial stagnation and, as a result, are some have sought, for the first time in 2016, to map how of the most socially and economically challenged our contributions as a long term partner in emerging countries in the world.
But they do not have to stay Africa, can help galvanise wider global efforts that way, and Randgold is one of an increasing to end poverty, promote prosperity and protect number of world-class companies showing that the environment.
We are working to ensure our countries such as Mali, Cte dIvoire and DRC can operations, efforts and impacts align with the goals host and support successful businesses.
A core part of Randgolds philosophy is that by doing business in a responsible manner we can catalyse economic growth in our host countries.
For example, in just three years Malis Ease of Doing Business ranking by the World Bank has improved 15 places, and the country is now above countries OUR CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SDGS 1 1 http: www.
org rankings such as Nigeria and Pakistan.
OUR CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SDGS CONTRIBUTIONS CONTRIBUTIONS FOR OUR PEOPLE FOR OUR PLANET OUR CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SDGs CONTRIBUTIONS CONTRIBUTIONS FOR OUR PEOPLE FOR OUR PLANET CONTRIBUTIONS FOR OUR PEOPLE CONTRIBUTIONS FOR OUR PLANET CONTRIBUTIONS FOR OUR HOST COUNTRIES AND COMMUNITIES CONTRIBUTIONS FOR OUR HOST COUNTRIES AND COMMUNITIES CONTRIBUTIONS FOR OUR HOST COUNTRIES AND COMMUNITIES RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 110 Mali Cte dIvoire Randgold has one mine in Cte dIvoire, Tongon, Mali is the eighth largest country in Africa and has which is located in a remote area about 50km south a population of approximately 16 million people.
Cte dIvoire has been Randgold operates three mines in Mali Morila, Loulo enjoying a sustained period of peaceful economic and Gounkoto.
Despite a thriving and entrepreneurial growth and development after a number of years culture, more than half Malis population lives below of civil war in the 2000s.
It has the highest gross the $1.25 day income poverty line.
national income of the four countries in which we operate but still faces a number of development Population: challenges, including a relatively low life expectancy.
15.8 million Population: Life expectancy at birth: 58.0 years Gross national income per head: $1 583 20.8 million Adult literacy rate: 33.6% Life expectancy at birth: 51.5 years Population with at least some Gross national income per head: $3 171 secondary education: 10.9% Adult literacy rate: 41% Population living below the $1.25 day Population with at least some income poverty line: 50.6% secondary education: 22% Human development index rating: 179 Population living below the $1.25 day income poverty line: 35% Human development index rating: 172 OUR HOST COUNTRIES DRC Senegal Randgold does not currently have any operational The DRC is Randgolds newest country of mines in Senegal but our Massawa exploration operation with our Kibali mine based there.
DRC project, which is at feasibility stage, is located there.
has enormous mineral wealth and huge economic Senegal has a rich history of trading and commerce potential.
Yet it currently has the lowest gross and has the highest ranking of our countries on the national income per head of all our countries of UNs Human Development Index.
Like all countries operation and nearly 88% of the population are in the region it still faces significant development reported to live below the $1.25 day income poverty challenges.
Encouragingly the country has a relatively high adult literacy rate and its rankings in the World Population: Banks Ease of Doing Business survey and the UNs Human Development Index are improving.
14.5 million Population: Life expectancy at birth: 66.5 years Gross national income per head: $2 188 Adult literacy rate: 52.1% 69.9 million Population with at least some Life expectancy at birth: 58.7 years secondary education: 11% Gross national income per head: $680 Population living below the $1.25 day Adult literacy rate: 61.2% income poverty line: 34% Population with at least some Human development index rating: 170 secondary education: 22% Population living below the $1.25 day income poverty line: 88% Human development index rating: 176 All data from UNDP Human Development Index report 2015.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 111 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOREWORD AND INTRODUCTION CONTINUED SUSTAINABILITY AT A GLANCE Focus KPI 2014 2015 2016 Trend Our targets Production target for 2017 is Gold sales $1 435m $1 395m $1 546m Positive trend 1 274.5oz Payments to suppliers in To increase procurement spend on countries of operation $364m $473m $421m Negative trend locally owned suppliers each year ECONOMIC Number of critical suppliers For all critical suppliers to be DEVELOPMENT certified to ISO 14001 or certified to IS0 14001 & OHSAS OHSAS 18001 N A N A 19 30 New target for 2017 18001 standards Total economic value To increase economic value 1 distributed $985m $992m $1 041m Positive trend distributed in line with production To increase health, education and Total spend by community economic development outcomes development committee $2.65m $6.27m $6.32m Positive trend for communities Percentage of host country To maintain the number of nationals nationals in workforce 91% 92% 93% Target achieved in our workforce above 80% To resolve 100% of grievances COMMUNITY Proportion of grievances registered through our grievance 2 resolved 99% 91% 100% Target achieved mechanism To reduce employee malaria Malaria incidence rate 50% 39% 28% Target achieved incidence below 30% Number of Voluntary To raise HIV AIDS awareness Counselling and Testing VCTs across the group, measured as for HIV 3 207 4 427 7 068 Positive trend 15% increase in VCTs year on year To remain below 1.0 per million LTIFR at operational mines 0.47 0.59 0.46 Target achieved hours worked Number of workplace fatalities 1 1 0 Target achieved For zero fatalities To have all fully-operational mines Number of mines certified to as OHSAS 18001 ISO 45001 HUMAN CAPITAL 3 OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 4 4 4 Target achieved compliant To provide sufficient formal training to ensure we continue to have the Number of employees receiving full range of skills required to run a formal training 210 302 2 218 Positive trend world-class gold mining company Number of class 1 major or 2 medium environmental Class 1 1 Class 1 0 Class 1 0 incidents Class 2 20 Class 2 11 Class 2 1 Target achieved For zero class 1 incidents 49.75 Coe kt 48.53 Coe kt 42.17 Coe kt To reduce GHG to 23.45Coe kt 2 2 2 2 4 Emission intensity milled milled milled Positive trend milled by 2020 To reduce river water abstraction Total water abstracted from to 15% of total freshwater offtake in rivers in areas of water stress 53% 49% 31% Positive trend water stress areas, by 2020 Number of water discharge ENVIRONMENT quality tests that do not conform Zero non-compliance with relevant with national or IFC standards 1 0 0 Target achieved national and IFC standards Number of environmental or health incidents related to For zero environmental or health cyanide 1 1 0 Target achieved issues linked to cyanide To have all operational mines ISO 14001 certification 4 5 5 Target achieved certified to ISO 14001 standard Develop and implement biodiversity BAPS for all our To implement BAPs at all fully operations 5 5 5 Target achieved operational mines Reduce the total disturbed area of our mines ha 4 350 4 383 4 345 Target achieved Reduce overall footprint 1 Including employee salaries and benefits, dividend payments to providers of capital, taxation and community investment.
2 Publicly stated figure as of 1 March 2016.
This included a batch of grievance claims on temporary pause for resolution which were resolved after this date.
3 Randgolds Kibali mine has been assessed as compliant to ISO 45001 by a third party, but is awaiting official certification as the standard itself is yet to be approved at time of writing.
4 Restated from 2015 report, following third party verification.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 112 SUSTAINABILITY AT A GLANCE Focus KPI 2014 2015 2016 Trend Our targets Production target for 2017 is Gold sales $1 435m $1 395m $1 546m Positive trend 1 274.5oz EXTERNAL RECOGNITION OF OUR SUSTAINABILITY WORK Payments to suppliers in To increase procurement spend on Randgold included in internationally countries of operation $364m $473m $421m Negative trend locally owned suppliers each year ECONOMIC respected FTSE4GOOD Index for the third Number of critical suppliers For all critical suppliers to be DEVELOPMENT consecutive year certified to ISO 14001 or certified to IS0 14001 & OHSAS Randgold ranked in top third of global OHSAS 18001 N A N A 19 30 New target for 2017 18001 standards miners for sustainability performance and Total economic value To increase economic value given industry-leading marks for scope and 1 distributed $985m $992m $1 041m Positive trend distributed in line with production quality of environmental and social reporting To increase health, education and by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Total spend by community economic development outcomes CEO Mark Bristow: ranked in worlds Top development committee $2.65m $6.27m $6.32m Positive trend for communities 25 CEOs by Harvard Business Review and 9th among the worlds top 100 by Percentage of host country To maintain the number of nationals Environmental Social and Governance nationals in workforce 91% 92% 93% Target achieved in our workforce above 80% ESG score: shortlisted for Edies Global To resolve 100% of grievances Sustainability Leader award: and made COMMUNITY Proportion of grievances registered through our grievance 2 a Son of Haut Uele province in the DRC resolved 99% 91% 100% Target achieved mechanism by the Workers Association of the Great To reduce employee malaria Orientale Region in recognition of his Malaria incidence rate 50% 39% 28% Target achieved incidence below 30% contribution to the area Number of Voluntary To raise HIV AIDS awareness Counselling and Testing VCTs across the group, measured as for HIV 3 207 4 427 7 068 Positive trend 15% increase in VCTs year on year To remain below 1.0 per million SCOPE AND BOUNDARY OF THIS LTIFR at operational mines 0.47 0.59 0.46 Target achieved hours worked REPORT The aim of this report is to present a balanced and Number of workplace fatalities 1 1 0 Target achieved For zero fatalities reasonable view of our companys sustainability To have all fully-operational mines performance.
The data on environmental, safety Number of mines certified to as OHSAS 18001 ISO 45001 HUMAN CAPITAL 3 and economic impacts presented covers all six of OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 4 4 4 Target achieved compliant our operational and development sites situated in To provide sufficient formal training Mali, DRC, Cte dIvoire and Senegal.
With the to ensure we continue to have the exception of greenhouse gas emissions GHGs, it Number of employees receiving full range of skills required to run a includes our in-country offices and guesthouses.
formal training 210 302 2 218 Positive trend world-class gold mining company The scope and measurement methods have not Number of class 1 major or changed if compared to Randgolds sustainability 2 medium environmental Class 1 1 Class 1 0 Class 1 0 report published in March 2016.
The data used to incidents Class 2 20 Class 2 11 Class 2 1 Target achieved For zero class 1 incidents populate this document is collated on a monthly 49.75 Coe kt 48.53 Coe kt 42.17 Coe kt To reduce GHG to 23.45Coe kt basis and reviewed by management.
Data for 2 2 2 2 4 Emission intensity milled milled milled Positive trend milled by 2020 previous years is provided in certain instances for comparative purposes.
A selection of sustainability To reduce river water abstraction information has been assured by an independent Total water abstracted from to 15% of total freshwater offtake in assurance provider, Environmental and Sustainability rivers in areas of water stress 53% 49% 31% Positive trend water stress areas, by 2020 Solutions ESS.
The complete assurance statement Number of water discharge as well as the GRI Content Index in accordance with ENVIRONMENT quality tests that do not conform Zero non-compliance with relevant the GRI Guidelines are attached as appendices to with national or IFC standards 1 0 0 Target achieved national and IFC standards the standalone sustainability report on our website Number of environmental or www.
health incidents related to For zero environmental or health cyanide 1 1 0 Target achieved issues linked to cyanide We welcome feedback on this sustainability report To have all operational mines and the activities described within.
ISO 14001 certification 4 5 5 Target achieved certified to ISO 14001 standard Develop and implement biodiversity BAPS for all our To implement BAPs at all fully operations 5 5 5 Target achieved operational mines Reduce the total disturbed area of our mines ha 4 350 4 383 4 345 Target achieved Reduce overall footprint 1 Including employee salaries and benefits, dividend payments to providers of capital, taxation and community investment.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 113 1 OUR GOVERNANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY Our governance of sustainability is not only about having the right policies, people and processes to achieve our environmental and social goals: it is also about managing deep, transparent and genuine partnerships with all stakeholders.
Mark Bristow, CEO Randgolds commitment to sustainable mining Our anti-corruption compliance policy explains is delivered through well-established policies, our zero tolerance approach to any form of bribery management systems and a rolling stakeholder or corruption, and complies with all applicable engagement programme.
These governance anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, rules processes are designed to keep our sustainability and regulations.
This includes termination of strategy on track and to ensure sustainability employment for accepting any bribes or facilitation remains fundamental to our corporate DNA - always payments.
The policy also sets out our commitment considered by all staff and contractors.
It also aims to undertake anti-corruption due diligence on all to drive lasting, mutually-beneficial partnerships parties we do business with, and to include antiwith all stakeholders including host countries and corruption clauses into sub-contractor agreements.
The policy also commits us to train all personnel in anti-bribery and corruption measures.
No breaches CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY POLICIES of the policy occurred in 2016.
At the heart of Randgolds sustainability governance is a set of policies that commit us to the highest Our conflict free gold policy reinforces other policies standards of environmental and social practices.
to ensure the gold we produce is delivered in a These include our code of conduct, anti-corruption manner that does not fuel armed conflict, fund compliance policy, conflict free gold policy, human armed groups or contribute to human rights abuses rights policy, biodiversity policy and our site-specific associated with such conflicts.
No breaches of the environmental and safety polices - which align with policy occurred in 2016. the expectations of the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 international standards respectively.
All All our sustainability related policies are drafted to policies are available in local languages as well as both comply with host country legislation, or where English.
In all our countries of operation we also it is stronger, to follow the lead of international have legally binding mining conventions or mining standards such as the IFC Performance Standards, codes that guarantee fiscal stability, govern taxes World Bank Operational Guidelines, OECD applicable and allow for international arbitration in Convention on Combating Bribery and the Voluntary the event of force majeure or a dispute.
Principles on Security and Human Rights.
For example in 2016 an internal audit of Loulos safety Our code of conduct defines the behaviour we management system was conducted against the IFC expect from all employees and suppliers, and Environmental Health & Safety Guidelines with the includes details of our best practice approach in mine achieving a 91% compliance with the clauses.
areas such as whistleblowing, anti-discrimination, environmental management, health & safety and This sustainability report provides further details of conflicts of interest.
The code is taught to all staff all these policies and how they have been monitored as part of their induction training and contravention and managed.
of the code leads to disciplinary action and potential termination of employment.
No breaches of the MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS FOR code occurred in 2016.
SUSTAINABILITY In recent years Randgold has invested significantly to put in place people and systems that can ensure our sustainability policies are implemented.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 114 1 FIGURE 1: OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK BOARD OF DIRECTORS Governance Chief executive Remuneration Audit committee & nomination officer committee committee Environmental Executive Treasury and social committee committee oversight committee Mark Bristow CEO Chairman Chiaka Berthe Willem Jacobs West Africa East and central Africa operations manager operations manager Grant Beringer Tahirou Ballo Independent GM Loulo-Gounkoto sustainability consultant complex Dr Haladou Manirou Luiz Correia Group health & GM Tongon mine Environmental and safety officer social oversight committee Charles Wells Drissa Arama GM Kibali mine GM Morila mine Paul Gillot Hilaire Diarra Group metallurgist & Group community deputy group GM capital projects and environmental officer Randgold has two executives who drive our As shown in the organogram above Randgolds work on community relations, health and safety, sustainability management system starts at the top environmental management and sustainability with our board holding ultimate responsibility for reporting and they report operationally to our chief sustainability performance.
The environmental & operating officers who sit above the mine general social oversight committee E&S committee, which managers and functionally to the CEO.
This meets quarterly, is the main body that oversees helps provide an important layer of independent implementation.
This is chaired by our CEO and sustainability oversight.
On site we have dedicated also includes the general managers of each mine, departments for the implementation of environmental our group health & safety officer, group community and social programmes.
and environmental officer and an independent consultant in an advisory and oversight role.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 115 Senior Board of directors management CASE STUDY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 OUR GOVERNANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED Randgold also builds sustainability performance We perform sensitivity analysis and stress testing into the remuneration system for its most senior at a group level analysing potential changes in executives and employees at each of its operations.
financial risks such as exchange and interest rates, For example, part of both our CEOs and CFOs operating risks and risks to water availability or water 1 annual bonus payments are dependent on the quality.
A correlation analysis is performed for group achieving zero major environmental incidents financial risks.
and a zero LTI to achieve the full reward in these categories.
Local communities are also involved in evacuation drills and wider risk planning.
Perhaps more importantly than having dedicated staff to deliver our sustainability goals, we foster a Randgold has identified resource shortages as culture of sustainability across the whole company.
one of the most important emerging risks which We see the delivery of a safe working environment, could have significant impact on its business and in prosperous and healthy host communities, and 2017 we will undertake a major group-level climate a thriving environment as the responsibility of all risk audit to ensure our financial risk management Randgold employees, suppliers and partners and accounts for climate change including setting an communicate this clearly and regularly to all arms of internal price for carbon.
Stakeholder engagement More details on Randgolds corporate governance Randgolds stakeholders are the cornerstone of our are also available in the corporate governance business.
From suppliers to shareholders, local section of this annual report.
families to labour forces, we have established a wide-ranging stakeholder engagement programme Risk and crisis management to ensure their input is an integral part of our At group level, our chief financial officer holds governance of sustainability.
responsibility for dedicated risk management planning, reporting to the CEO, audit committee and board of directors.
This includes delivering regular risk management education for non-executive directors.
THE PRIMACY OF PARTNERSHIPS A fundamental element of our companys success in the parts of emerging Africa where our mines operate is one that is not always straightforward to measure.
It is the development of genuine trust and partnership with our stakeholders.
Everything we do in our host countries is done in partnership with the government and the people affected by our work.
Thus part of our sustainability governance is the inclusion of appropriate stakeholder representation in key management and ownership systems such as: Host communities - We help build trust and partnership by devolving spending power to community development committees CDCs, fostering regular two-way dialogue and managing a fair and accessible grievance mechanism.
Employees and labour unions - We invite unions to be represented on our mine boards, meet regularly and recognise all employee related representation.
All employees are eligible for either share or bonus schemes that give them a personal stake in the success of the business.
Host governments - As partners in development, national governments feature as joint-owners of all our mines and set our legal obligations in areas such as closure planning.
Forming successful, mutually beneficial partnerships can be hard to do and these systems have evolved over the 20 years plus of Randgolds operations as effective processes to ensure optimal decisions are made at the right time for the benefit of all.
Our countries of operations have all suffered from some levels of unrest and conflict in recent years, and from health emergencies such as the Ebola outbreak of 2014.
In all cases it is the primacy of our partnerships that means Randgold production levels have never been significantly affected.
In 2016 the benefits of our commitment to genuine partnership were again witnessed over a dispute with the Mali tax department.
Although there was a specific issue that required international arbitration, the spirit of constructive partnership with the Malian government meant that operations were unaffected and that a mutually acceptable solution is being discussed.
1 A method to determine the likelihood of any risk occurring at the same time as another risk.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 116 S E U E N Y I O O L N P S M E S R E D L N O G H O E S R A H S 1 FIGURE 2: OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND HOW WE ENGAGE THEM Publications and online Briefings on sustainability included in investor roadshows and information.
| Private meetings and and market statements on sustainability.
| Responded to sustainability questionnaires such as CDP and Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI.
| Responding to Procurement team Mass employee rating agency account management meetings questionnaires.
| Tender Information sharing and input via documents.
| Meetings with local business forums including with unions.
Including new IN REACH Randgold CEO.
| Performance reviews and daily discussions on health and safety.
OUR STAKEHOLDERS Unions representatives participate at our mine board Formal meetings and correspondence.
| Materiality meetings and as observers in overall strategy assessment process.
| Monthly and mass employee meetings.
| process in 2016 with Malian tax department.
| Formal meetings, correspondence and Interactions at conference and speaking engagements.
| Union attendance at monthly Presentation of annual and sustainability Specialist cost review meetings.
| Government representatives from partnerships assessment process processes of host countries participate in mine in areas such as Community board meetings.
HIV AIDS, water Development management.
| Committees and Formal meetings, grievance mechanism.
| correspondence Regular meetings between and events.
| Materiality local chiefs and mine GMs, also assessment process.
| Local presentations of annual Consultations, PPPs and local events.
| Formal Memorandum of Understanding with community in Kibali, DRC.
| Participation in local cultural ceremonies and religious feasts.
We categorise stakeholders into eight groups and Our engagement programme applies at all stages our stakeholder engagement programme ensures of a mines lifecycle from exploration through to that consistent mechanisms are in place to keep construction, operation and closure.
For example, an ongoing two-way dialogue with each of these even during the early exploration stage we commit diverse constituencies throughout the year.
These to setting up an official grievance mechanism as mechanisms take several forms tailored to the group a channel of communication for any community in mind.
concerns, and to employing local people in the exploration teams.
For example, local communities are engaged through formal mechanism such as consultations, Our aim is to be receptive and flexible to the CDCs, presentations of annual and sustainability feedback we receive through our stakeholder reports and our materiality assessment: as well as engagement programme.
For example, as part of the through informal mechanisms such as mine teams employee engagement process in 2016 we launched joining local feasts such as Tabaski Day in Mali our In-Reach programme which aims to improve the and Cte dIvoire or by appearances on local flow of information between management and staff radio.
The ways we engage with all eight groups of and to ensure that staff ideas are taken on board stakeholders are listed in Figure 2. and corporate values are communicated throughout the group.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 117 L O C A L L Y - A F F E A C I T D E E D M C O M M U N I T I E S S R O T C A R G T O N V O E R C N D M N E A N S T R S E I L P P U S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 OUR GOVERNANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED Randgold is a trusted partner with our community.
Life in our village has transformed for the better since the mine arrived and, though we cant agree on everything, I know they are always ready to come and listen to what our villages elected officials or local chiefs have to say.
Sambou Mariko, Mayor of Sanso, Mali STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT IN 2016 Key sustainability Stakeholder issues raised How we responded Shareholders The highest priority Safety: We had a very encouraging year in regards to safety issues from shareholders management, seeing LTI rates reduce this year.
Full details in our materiality in the Safety first section of this report.
assessment included Revenue transparency and anti-corruption: We have a zero safety, revenue tolerance approach to corruption and our anti-corruption transparency and anticompliance policy is enforced across our group and applied corruption measures, to all contractors.
malaria and management Malaria: We measure and seek to reduce malaria incidence of human rights at all mines and surrounding communities, with rates including with security dropping during the year.
Full details can be found in the forces Health in the community section of this report.
Human rights: We respond to all shareholder Human rights, correspondence on this issue including full details on environmental our human rights policy and how it is implemented and management and safeguarded.
More details in Human rights and security emergency planning forces section.
were also raised with us Environmental management: We are committed to by shareholders managing and reducing our environmental impact.
Full details of our approach on energy, water, biodiversity, air quality and water management are detailed in section 4 of this report.
Emergency planning: As well as private correspondence we have included more details on our risk and crisis governance in this sustainability report this year.
Employees Employees requested Business accessibility: Launched our In Reach programme more information on as part of an extensive communication campaign to ensure business performance strong two-way communications between employees and planning, and accessible management.
discussions on how Local employment: We exceeded our target to maintain the salary levels are number of nationals in our workforce above 80% in 2016. calculated See the For our people section in this report for further detail.
Levels of employment Safety and occupation health: We had a very encouraging given to local year in regards to safety management, seeing LTIFR and communities and incident rates reduce this year.
New measures also put in nationals place for occupational health.
Full details in the For our Maintaining the highest people section of this report.
levels of safety and occupational health RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 118 1 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT IN 2016 CONTINUED Key sustainability Stakeholder issues raised How we responded Governments Discussions over the Closure planning: Our CEO met with the newly-appointed sustainable closure of Malian Minister of Mines who expressed satisfaction with Morila with the newlythe mine closure projects.
Closure planning details can be appointed Malian found in the Closure planning section of this report.
Minister of Mines Infrastructure and community development: Over $6.32 million invested in community development.
Our CEO Government-raised also met the Malian parliamentary commission in 2016 to priorities in 2016 provide insights.
See the Community development section also included level of this report.
of infrastructural and Malian tax: A specific issue with the Malian tax authority community investment relating to our past tax assessments required international Discussions over tax arbitration in 2016 to successfully resolve it.
Further issues dispute in Mali are under discussion for resolution.
Malaria and HIV AIDS: We measure and seek to reduce Highest priority issues both malaria incidence and HIV AIDS at all mines and from government surrounding communities.
Full details can be found in the respondees via Health in the community section of this report.
materiality assessment Community grievances: 100% of grievances successfully included malaria, HIV resolved in 2016.
More details can be found on page 121.
AIDS, and community grievance resolution Locally-affected Planning with CDCs to Local economic development: Very high attendance rates communities debate and agree on the at community development committee meetings and over priority projects for the $6.32 million invested in sustainable development projects in year 2016.
More details in the Community development section of this report.
Every local village Malaria and HIV AIDS: We measure and seek to reduce has its own specific both malaria incidence and HIV AIDS at all mines and issues that we manage surrounding communities.
Local communities also involved at community-level.
in distribution of mosquito nets, making anti-malarial Highest priority issues drugs freely available to staff at our Malian operations and from community awareness programmes in 2016.
Full details can be found in respondees via the Health in the community section of this report.
materiality assessment Local employment: We exceeded our target to maintain the included malaria, HIV number of nationals in our workforce above 80% in 2016.
AIDS, local employment See the For our people section of this report for further rates, local economic detail.
development and Com munity grievances: 100% of grievances successfully community grievance resolved in 2016.
More details can be found on the following resolution page.
Discussions around Expansion: Public Participation Procedure PPP launched future projects such as with locally-affected communities around the Massawa potential construction project.
of Massawa mine in Senegal NGOs Each NGO tends to We have strong working relationships with local and be concerned with a international NGOs such as Soutoura, World Education, specific theme or local USAID and FDS Mali and these are explained in more issue.
In general, key detail in the section Taking a partnership approach to concerns raised by this improve outcomes.
New partnerships in 2016 included constituency include those with Water Aid and Afia Sante DRC and IDEAL issues of environmental Cte dIvoire.
management and health We also responded to several international NGOs such as especially HIV AIDS and Carbon Disclosure Project CDP to provide  health related data and information.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 119 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 OUR GOVERNANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT IN 2016 CONTINUED Key sustainability Stakeholder issues raised How we responded Unions Discussions about salary Union representatives participate at our mine board levels, transparency and meetings and as observers in overall strategy meetings.
worker benefits We also hold monthly mass employee meetings with union representatives.
Concerns around closure Business accessibility: launched our In Reach programme planning, especially at as part of an extensive communication campaign to ensure Morila strong two-way communications between employees and Levels of employment management.
given to local Local employment: We exceeded our target to maintain the communities and number of nationals in our workforce above 80% in 2016. nationals See the For our people section of this report for further detail.
Maintaining the highest Safety and occupation health: We have had a very levels of safety and encouraging year in regards to safety management, seeing occupational health LTIFR and incident rates reduce this year.
New measures remained a key point also put in place for occupational health.
Full details in the For our people section of this report.
Suppliers and Regular discussion to Malaria: We measure and seek to reduce malaria incidence contractors consider how contractors at all mines and surrounding communities and have can best contribute to established an ambitious plan to eradicate malaria in these community development areas.
Full details can be found in the Let us spray section initiatives of this report.
Human rights: We respond to all shareholder Highest priority correspondence on this issue including full details on issues from supplier our human rights policy and how it is implemented and respondees via safeguarded.
More details in Human rights and security materiality assessment forces section of this report.
included malaria, Environmental management: We are committed to cyanide, environmental managing and reducing our environmental impact.
Full management, human details of our approach on energy, water, biodiversity, air rights, collective quality and water management are detailed in section 4 of bargaining and gender this report.
equality Cyanide: We meet international best practice on cyanide management.
See Waste management section of this report.
Collective bargaining: All of our countries of operation have the right to freedom of association enshrined in law and union representatives participate at our mine board meetings and as observers in overall strategy meetings.
Gender equality: Randgold has a clear and transparent non-discrimination policy and we strive to increase the number of female employees in our workforce.
See Gender equality section of this report for more details.
Media Sustainability issues Press: We have released several  press most frequently releases and market announcements in 2016 which can be discussed with found online at www.
Our CEO international and and other spokespeople have also discussed environmental, local press in 2016 social and governance issues in media appearances and included local economic briefings throughout the year.
This sustainability report is development and the tax publicly available and released to national and international dispute in Mali media.
Local economic development: Very high attendance rates at Community Development Committee and over $4 million invested in sustainable development projects in 2016.
More details in Community development section of this report.
Malian tax: A specific issue with the Malian tax authority relating to our past tax assessments required international arbitration in 2016 to successfully resolve it and further issues are under discussion for resolution.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 120 1 Any grievance related to human rights is flagged GRIEVANCE MECHANISM as a separate category that draws the attention of An important part of our sustainability governance senior management, however no such grievances is the grievance mechanism which is in place at were registered in 2016. all sites and designed in line with both national regulation and international best practice IFC Examples of grievances raised and settled Performance Standards.
This process is a very throughout the year include a complaint about pit valuable two-way channel of communication with discharge spreading too close to farmland a trench local communities.
Randgold puts significant was built to solve the issue and minor damage effort and resource into ensuring it is a fair and to a house caused by an exploration team house accessible way for local communities to lodge a was repaired.
The mechanism is also the main complaint if they feel they have been unfairly treated channel by which resettlement compensation is or discriminated against in a non-work related managed and this accounts for a large proportion disagreement.
of the claims made and settled.
Figure 3 does not include a collective compensation claim made by a We commit to responding to all grievances within group of individuals at Kokiza near Kibali as this was one week and aim to resolve 100% of grievances lodged via a legal team rather than our grievance to the satisfaction of all parties.
This claim is being processed by our widely distributed around surrounding communities lawyers who are scrutinising each individual case.
and are advertised using local radio, posters and local notice boards.
As shown in Figure 3, 63 grievances were received during 2016 and all 100% had been satisfactorily resolved by 31 December 2016.
Encouragingly the total number of grievances registered was down over 60% this year.
FIGURE 3: GRIEVANCES REGISTERED AND RESOLVED Grievances Grievances Grievances Grievances registered resolved registered resolved at 31 December 2016 2016 2015 2015 Loulo 0 0 2 2 Gounkoto 0 0 0 0 2 Kibali 60 60 174 158 Morila 0 0 0 0 Tongon 3 3 2 2 1 TOTAL 63 63 100% 178 162 91% 1 Publicly stated figure as of 1 March 2016.
2 This excludes a collective compensation claim from a group of individuals at Kokiza, lodged via a legal team rather than the grievance mechanism.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 121 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 OUR GOVERNANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED One of the most useful parts of the materiality MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT assessment exercise is to enable us to understand In order to gather further insights from our whether there are issues that internal management stakeholders and to understand the relative and external stakeholders have different perceptions importance that each group gives to specific of in terms of prioritisation.
This year for example, sustainability issues Randgold carries out a the exercise suggested that HIV AIDS and air materiality assessment each year.
The exercise pollution were both high priorities for external surveys both internal and external stakeholders stakeholders yet were ranked noticeably lower to rank the critical sustainability risks they deem by internal stakeholders.
Conversely legal the highest priority and is implemented in line with compliance, community grievance resolution guidance set out by the GRI G4 guidelines and environmental incidents featured in internal managements top 10 priorities but were ranked As shown in Figure 4 the materiality assessment lower externally.
Randgold will take these results in 2016 found that the four highest priority issues on board and ensure that the priorities of all across both internal and external stakeholders were: stakeholders are addressed in 2017. cyanide management, water pollution, closure planning and local & national employment.
The At the conclusion of the process we were able latter is a new addition to this category having been to produce the risk matrix below, showing which classified as a medium priority issue the previous sustainability issues were collectively assessed year.
High priority issues are those that appeared in the top 10 issues of both internal The results also introduced six new issues as and external stakeholders.
Medium priority issues medium priority issues: talent attraction and are those that appear in the top third of either retention, governance, land disturbance, group.
Definitions of each issue are included on the indigenous peoples, waste management and following page.
All of these issues are addressed in this report.
FIGURE 4: MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT RESULTS 2016 Cyanide management Water pollution Local & national employment Closure planning HIGHEST PRIORITY ISSUES Safety Stakeholder engagement Legal compliance Community grievance resolution Environmental incidents Anticorruption measures Talent attraction and staff retention Local economic development Skills transfer & training Governance Malaria HIV AIDS Community development Air pollution MEDIUM Waste management PRIORITY Indigenous peoples ISSUES Land disturbance CURRENT OR POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE BUSINESS RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 122 IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS 1 Below is a list of definitions of issues based on descriptions used by the Global Reporting Initiative GRI : DEFINITIONS Topic Issue Description Health and Safety Managing and monitoring workplace hazards to ensure the safety of employees and safety contractors: including both incidents and near misses.
Establishing a safety culture and promoting safe behaviour.
Malaria Impact of malaria on workforce and local community in locations of operation: access to provision of treatment programmes for workforce local communities.
HIV AIDS Impact of HIV AIDS on workforce and local community in locations of operation: access to provision of treatment programmes for workforce local communities.
Cyanide Ensuring highest standards of production, transportation, storage and use.
Managing management and monitoring impact of incidents and spills and cyanide levels in tailings storage facility pools.
Economic Closure Rehabilitation in line with closure plans and relevant agreements regulation to reduce planning impact on the community and manage financial liabilities.
Local economic Increase in local business and value of local economy and number of indirect jobs.
development Environment Air pollution Managing, monitoring and minimising impacts on local communities, environment and wildlife from releases to air, such as dust and emissions.
Adequate management and contingency crisis planning for spills disasters at operations.
Water pollution Managing and monitoring water quality and minimising impacts on local communities, environment and wildlife from releases into water.
Environmental Management and contingency planning for incidents such as spills of tailings, incidents hydrocarbons or other significant process materials, unauthorised landclearing, etc.
Waste Managing all organic and inorganic waste to ensure it is disposed of in a safe and management  manner.
Working to minimise volumes of waste and maximise recycling.
Land Minimising the amount of land disturbed by mining activity and providing responsible disturbances management of cleared and rehabilitated land.
Community Community Management of complaints and grievances, including land use claims.
grievance resolution Community Investment in public services, health, education, and enterprise development in areas of development operation and their outcomes.
Indigenous Respect for and engagement with indigenous populations ie tribes and cultures with peoples distinct historic continuity from pre-colonial or pre-settler societies such as the aborigines of Australia, Inuits of the polar region or Mayas in Guatemala.
Labour Staff retention Human resources planning matching company development plans: attracting suitably educated skilled workers: retaining high-potential employees: succession planning for key roles.
Staff training Employee training and development to meet the needs of the organisation and provide and skills career progression, including nationals taking over roles previously held by non-nationals.
transfer Local and Prioritising employment of host country nationals and specifically people from local national communities.
employment Governance Anti-corruption Compliance with regulations: ethical standards, codes, procedures and clear compliance measures process: bribery and corruption allegations prosecutions.
Legal Compliance with all laws and regulations in all areas of operation, including competition compliance law, anti-trust, money laundering etc, risk of fines and sanctions.
Stakeholder Ensuring all stakeholders are consulted on issues that may affect them and that views are engagement fed into the decision making process.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 123 2 FOR OUR PEOPLE % LTIFR 22 2 218 STAFF RECEIVED FORMAL TRAINING TO 0.46 PER MILLION HOURS WORKED LOWEST RATE IN 21 YEAR HISTORY 0 FATALITIES WORKFORCE ARE HOST COUNTRY % NATIONALS 2 800 93 TESTS CONDUCTED FOR HEPATITIS B VOLUNTARY STAFF TURNOVER RATE less than 2% Y R T N U O C S T L T S N A E N O M O T H I I U T R A C M N E 2 Whether they are labourers or lawyers, metallurgists SAFETY FIRST or management, our human capital is the bedrock All parts of a gold mines operations carry health of our business.
Our human resource policy is and safety risks.
Protecting our workers from these based on attracting and retaining the best talent hazards is Randgolds number one priority.
from our host countries and providing the constant training required to deliver a world-class gold mining business.
FIGURE 6: LOCAL PRIORITISATION POLICY Our commitment to have at least 80% of the workforce constituted from host country nationals is central to our business plan and our sustainability.
It helps us to maintain our social license to operate, minimise security risks and reduce our reliance on expensive international contractors, which in turn lowers our overall labour cost base.
As shown in Figure 6 our policy is to recruit wherever possible from the villages and communities near our mines.
If we are unable to find staff with the appropriate 1.
LOCALLY skills from the local community, we then look to AFFECTED recruit host country nationals, followed by regional COMMUNITIES and Africa-based employees, before finally looking to expats.
At the end of 2016 we had a total workforce of 11 659 workers, of which 93% were host country nationals, a 1% increase from 2015.
This policy is not limited to labourers but extends all the way to management level.
For example our Malian operations have 100% Malian management teams.
4 L. 3 A N O I T A N. 2 OFFSET Biodiversity losses that cannot 4 be restored with programmes to compensate and create net positive impact.
RESTORE REHABILITATE Ecosystems by progressively rehabilitating affected areas during 3 operations and closure, reintroducing original flora and fauna where possible.
MINIMISE Impacts through use of appropriate 2 management systems to limit land disturbance throughout the mine life.
AVOID Impacts by locating facilities and access routes away from natural 1 and critical habitats.
No go commitment to Natural World Heritage sites.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED FIGURE 7: RISK MITIGATION HIERARCHY APPLIED TO SAFETY MANAGE Where exposure to risk cannot be mitigated, we ensure we 3 manage them through careful administration and monitoring, including the compulsory use of personal protective equipment PPE MITIGATE Where hazards cannot be eliminated, 2 exposure to them can be mitigated through new technology or the mechanisation of processes 1 ELIMINATE Known hazards When an incident occurs, the relevant safety, health Our policies and environment SHE teams assess the incident The aim of our safety policy is to ensure a safe and and ensure that appropriate corrective actions are healthy workforce.
This begins with the delivery of a taken.
We take care to ensure signage includes safe working environment, free of fatalities and lost local languages and is explained to illiterate workers.
We have a target to reduce the LTIFR All mines have an emergency preparedness and and the Total Injury Frequency Rate TIFR by 10% response plan and undertake evacuation drills and year on year.
To help us achieve these goals we equipment testing throughout the year.
drills, any sub-standard employees reaction is addressed through training and awareness work.
First, we ensure all our operational mines have Our underground projects both have specially robust safety systems in place.
These are guided trained mine rescue teams on site with specialist by and certified to the OHSAS 18001 or ISO equipment.
45001 international best practice safety standards and as demonstrated in Figure 7, are based on a We have a zero tolerance policy for drug and alcohol risk mitigation hierarchy.
This sees us eliminate, use and unsafe behaviour on site, and conduct mitigate then manage our safety risks.
This applies random breath testing across all sites.
Any failure to all parts of the mine and all possible safety results in disciplinary action.
incidents from falls to fire, contaminant exposure to explosives.
Our performance The second prong to our safety approach is training After a disappointing rise in the LTIFR during 2015, and risk awareness-raising.
To ensure our workforce we intensified our focus on safety throughout 2016, fully understand the risks and safety procedures and we are pleased to report a 22% drop in LTIFR to unique to their jobs, each department runs a toolbox 0.46 per million hours worked.
safety briefing at the start of each shift, providing a daily reminder of safety procedures or a focus This represents our lowest LTIFR in 21 years of on a particular topic.
Departments also manage operation, and was bolstered by a group wide LTI pre-shift equipment inspections and use of personal free quarter three.
We also recorded a 17% drop protective equipment.
Each department has its own in our Total Injury Frequency Rate TIFR and, specialised training modules and we also run site most importantly, we recorded a fatality-free year.
However, one disappointment was that Morila and Gounkoto did not repeat their 2015 achievement of The final prong of our approach is supporting an LTI-free year.
a holistic safety culture that encourages every person to take responsibility for the safety of themselves and those around them.
We do this through compulsory safety induction programmes for all workers, contractors and visitors and by encouraging employees to challenge people if they think the correct safety equipment or procedures arent being used.
We also conduct random audits to check our workers understanding of correct safety procedures and condition of personal protective equipment PPE.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 126 NET POSITIVE IMPACT NET POSITIVE IMPACT CASE STUDY 2 FIGURE 8: GROUP-LEVEL SAFETY PERFORMANCE We attribute the improvements in safety performance in part to the additional training and awareness 2016 2015 2014 raising campaigns provided in 2016.
For example at Tongon we ran awareness campaigns on safe Total 1 scaffolding, motorbike safety and risk assessment, labour 11 567 11 348 12 341 and at Kibali we ran training on first aid, supervisor Person awareness, defensive driving, basic life support and hours 25 999 634 25 518 122 27 583 588 refresher training for our mine rescue teams.
At 2 group level, 146 senior management staff attended LTIs 12 15 13 the Managing Safely training course run by the 3 LTIFR 0.46 0.59 0.47 British Institute of Occupational Safety and Health Fatalities 0 1 1 IOSH.
4 TIFR 5.73 6.90 9.26 Near misses 332 211 189 1 Including persons employed by our contractors calculated as an average over the year.
2 Defined as injuries that occur in the execution of duties which prevent our workers from performing those duties for at least one day.
3 Number of LTIs per million person hours worked.
4 Number of LTIs plus medical treatment injuries MTIs per million manhours worked.
SAFETY TRAINING FOR SENIOR MANAGEMENT In 2015, Randgold experienced its first rise in LTIFR in five years.
Eager to halt and reverse the trend, we implemented a number of measures to improve our safety performance in 2016.
Safety starts at the top, therefore we decided to send 146 management staff including all heads of department and their deputies on the Managing Safely training course, to ensure they had the knowledge and skills necessary to assess and manage the various health and safety challenges in their departments.
Run by the Institute of Occupational Health and Safety IOSH, Managing Safely is an internationally recognised and certified training course aimed at management staff, to help them better: understand their responsibilities: identify hazards: assess and control risks faced: and investigate all incidents.
Armed with this information we believe our managers are better equipped to embed a health and safety culture within their own teams and the wider organisation.
We believe the 58% increase in near miss reports in 2016 is an indication of improved awareness of safety risks.
We plan to run a similar course for team supervisors in 2017.
CULTURE BEYOND THE MINE GATE Our commitment to a safety culture does not end at the mine gates.
In the remote parts of Africa where we work, safety standards both industrial and social tend to be underdeveloped or unenforced and we strive to encourage our host communities, suppliers and other local stakeholders to put better health and safety protection in place wherever possible.
For example, to improve road safety in local communities we run speed awareness campaigns in the community and provide defensive driving courses to employees.
As part of our motorbike loan scheme an employee benefit that offers an interest free loan to assist with the purchase of a motorbike we ensure a free helmet is provided with each loan.
As detailed in the Developing sustainable local supply chains section of this report, we also require local contractors and suppliers to meet our safety standards and provide training where applicable.
Our annual medical checks monitor for OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH musculoskeletal disorders, loss of hearing, Our policies respiratory and breathing issues such as silicosis Many parts of the gold mining process expose our and tuberculosis.
Staff who are potentially exposed employees to occupational health hazards such as to chemicals and heavy metals also receive dust inhalation or noise exposure.
If left unchecked, biological and radiation testing.
these issues can develop into serious health problems for our workers.
For example, without Our performance proper controls in place long term exposure to high Our clinics successfully completed occupationlevels of silica or diesel particulate matter can lead based specific checks on all prospective workers, to respiratory illnesses like occupational asthma, and access to our mines is conditional upon the pneumoconiosis, silicosis and chronic obstructive possession of a valid fitness certificate.
We also pulmonary disease though symptoms may not continued to raise awareness of the danger of appear for years.
fatigue as a cause of accidents.
To prevent and manage these risks we take There were two new cases of occupational health a number of steps, including regular site risk conditions across the group in 2016, both were assessments, engineering controls such as dust musculoskeletal disorders and are undergoing collection systems and ventilation systems and use treatment.
There were also two new cases of of PPE.
We regularly monitor occupational hygiene tuberculosis with remedial measures undertaken levels to ensure adequate control measures are in including immediate isolation and treatment and place, and adjust them where necessary.
These medical surveillance of co-workers.
We also began efforts are complemented with regular medical screening for Hepatitis B as detailed in the case checks for all employees, including prior to study on the following page.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 128 CASE STUDY 2 FIGURE 10: OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE FREQUENCY RECRUITING AND RETAINING THE BEST RATE PER MILLION HOURS WORKED TALENT FROM OUR HOST COUNTRIES Our policies 2016 2015 2014 One of the most important bonds in our partnership 0.077 0.078 0 with host countries and communities is the high level of national residents we employ.
We have a group A large focus of occupational health work in 2016 target for at least 80% of our workforce to come from was the Loulo underground mine.
Monitoring for host countries, and we support the development of diesel particulate matter DPM revealed high levels talent that can lock in the world-class skills needed and this led the mines health team to launch a full for sustainable development goals to succeed in review of occupational health management plans, Africa.
which identified a lack of qualitative and quantitative health risk assessment methodologies in the health It is a strategy that helps create an effective and exposure assessment process.
loyal workforce at a relatively low cost base, cements strong community relations and fosters a To close the gap we worked with SGS laboratories secure environment for our mines.
in Ghana and Spain throughout 2016 to undertake occupational hygiene surveys that monitored and To recruit the best candidates from our host analysed the work environment at Loulo, determining countries and communities we use tools such as the extent of worker exposure to contaminants.
psychometric tests that match competencies with This information was processed to identity areas the right roles.
And to support high retention rates where controls to minimise exposure are lacking or we provide shared ownership schemes, support inadequate.
The same assessments were conducted and respect local cultures and drive a formal and at Gounkoto and Kibali, and the full results will be informal training programme to nurture careers and applied in 2017. employee excellence.
Eager to protect our workforce from the disease, INTRODUCING we introduced voluntary Hepatitis B testing across our Malian mines in 2016.
Those that tested HEPATITIS B negative were offered inoculation against the disease, those who tested positive offered access SCREENING to drugs and treatment.
In total we tested 3 157 workers and found a prevalence rate of 12.5%.
Hepatitis B is a potentially life-threatening liver Subsequently, 98.7% of those who tested negative disease and is recognised in the SDGs as a have been inoculated and 163 people have been major global health problem.
It is estimated that referred for treatment.
240 million people around the world are infected and nearly 700 000 deaths a year are linked to We plan to introduce Hepatitis B testing at Kibali the disease.
Sub-Saharan Africa suffers some and Tongon in 2017. of the highest Hepatitis B prevalence rates in the world, for example in Mali the prevalence rate is estimated to be 14.5%.
People suffering from Hepatitis B often experience flu like symptoms such as fever, tiredness, vomiting and diarrhoea, which can either prevent them from working or have negative impacts on concentration and effectiveness.
However the disease can be inoculated against and the infection can be managed with drugs it wont cure it but will slow its progress and improve the quality of life and reduce rates of liver cancer for sufferers.
WORKFORCE HEPATITIS B INCIDENCE 2016 Referred for Tests Positive cases Prevalence Inoculations treatment Morila 731 108 14.8% 573 101 Loulo 1 490 217 14.6% 1 257 35 Gounkoto 936 72 7.7% 522 27 TOTAL 3 157 397 12.6% 2 352 163 RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 129 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED We also have a deep commitment to constant Informal training is constant in the Randgold communication with our workforce including twice culture and includes skills shadowing, mentoring yearly mass meetings with the CEO, information and on the job training.
Formal training includes sharing and input via union representatives.
partnership arrangements with top ranking global universities such as Harvard School of Business, London Business School and the Graduate School Our performance of Business in Cape Town, as well as executive The Randgold workforce is an essential partner in development certifications such as our finance for the business.
We have high retention rates with non-financial managers course.
a voluntary staff turnover of less than 2% in 2016, and we take pride in the number of employees who Prioritisation of skills development is based on feel that Randgold is my company.
Randgold also our succession planning including a boardsupports several initiatives to foster a culture of approved matrix that develops workforce skills to shared ownership and shared responsibility.
We constantly monitor and re-assess both employees and our own training These include share and bonus schemes for both programmes, and support the cross-pollination of senior and ordinary employees.
Senior employees opportunities across the group operations.
share ownership of the company through a share system based on a three-year vesting policy.
We also run a stagiaire industry placement Ordinary employees are awarded a range of programme for students from host country colleges.
incentives such as an efficiency bonus - based in part on safety performance, production and Our performance excellency bonuses.
There was a sevenfold increase in the number of We also finance benefits such as a 24-month interest employees receiving formal training in 2016 with free loan to help workers acquire a motorcycle.
This 2 218 employees receiving training approximately also drives wider business goals such as catalysing 19% of our workforce, compared to 302 people entrepreneurialism in local communities, enhancing in 2015.
We invested over $870 000 in these worker satisfaction and reducing dependence on programmes.
Randgolds services such as an employee bus.
Senior and ordinary employees benefited from a A key milestone achieved in 2016 was the launch wide range of training and skill certifications in 2016, of our In Reach programme to improve the flow of including: information to employees and create ambassadors Safety-related courses - such as advanced within the business.
It aims to further increase both incident investigation and underground vehicle shared ownership and workforce communications.
The owner mining initiative highlighted in last years Management systems - such as ISO 14001, sustainability report continued its progress at Loulos ISO 45001 and OHSAS 18001. underground mine in 2016.
Core business skills - such as finance for non-financial managers, supply chain, rock Extra curricular activities across the group included mechanics, welding, drilling and blasting.
celebration of the Ramadan feast and Tabaski day Sustainability related skills - such as in Mali and Cte dIvoire, while the annual Morila pump installation and maintenance, waste River Run saw 25 teams of employees, community management and local artisan training.
members, contractors and a Morila womens team compete.
On the executive development side, over 60 senior staff attended our finance for non-financial TRAINING AND SUCCESSION PLANNING managers course in 2016 and a number of senior Our policies group executives and operational managers attended courses at Harvard School of Business Excellent training is key to our sustainability.
We and the Graduate School of Business in Cape Town, manage a variety of formal and informal training among other placements.
programmes designed to deliver the skills required to run a world-class gold mining business.
FIGURE 11: INDIVIDUAL MINE RETENTION RATES Voluntary turnover Total turnover 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 LouloGounkoto 2.0% 1.0% 2.0% 4.0% 2.0% 6.0% Morila 1.0% 0.2% 1.0% 2.0% 15.0% 3.0% Kibali 2.0% 2.2% 3.0% 3.9% 4.7% 8.6% Tongon 1.3% 2.6% 2.4% 1.9% 2.8% 6.6% RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 130 CASE STUDY 2 He adds, There are more opportunities for the EMPLOYEE future and my children will be well educated, they can go to university if they want to.
SPOTLIGHTS: A Nicholas Tatsima-Samaki MISSION TO KEEP Nicholas is a 27 year old from the village of LEARNING Surur near Kibali.
He joined Randgold as an assistant operator in the plant in 2013.
Clever and Fiston Asimade dedicated, Nicholas has been promoted twice in Fiston is a 30 year old from the Watsa region near three years and is now a crushing supervisor.
our Kibali mine in the DRC.
He joined Randgold in 2010 during the construction of the mine, helping Nicholas explains, I have some qualifications initially on the construction for the Kokiza village as a mechanic, but when I left school there was relocation.
During that time Fiston proved himself not much work so I was doing small jobs like to be an enthusiastic and skilled worker, and he construction to get money, and made about $80 - was invited to take part in testing and, based on $100 a month.
Working at Kibali, I have got some the results, was sent to Tongon to learn about gold new skills and met some good people who are processing and train in metallurgy.
happy to help me and teach me new things.
I want to have some more training to become a head of Fiston explains, I am proud to have learned department and, if I work hard and keep learning, metallurgy and to work for Randgold.
And my I know Randgold will keep helping me to achieve family are proud of me too, we were all excited that.
when I went to Tongon because I had never left DRC before.
At school I graduated with a diploma Also our world has changed, it used to take three in maths and physics but we had no money for me weeks to go to Aru now we can go in three hours.
This has been an opportunity There are banks, there is more business and for me to do well, so I am working hard.
I never opportunities, our hospitals didnt used to have any thought I would get an opportunity like this in my equipment, now they are better.
football stadium and the whole area is proud of this and excited to go.
Fistons hard work has paid off, he has excelled at his job and was promoted from reagent operator to supervisor, and he is determined to progress further.
I am on a mission to keep learning, I want to become a foreman and then a head of department, and I also want to develop agriculture in our community.
Before Kibali Durba was a village, now it is a town.
We used to have huts but now we have houses with iron roofs.
We have good schools and hospitals.
We can see more opportunities for the future and I want to help with that.
Fiston Asimade Nicholas Tatsima-Samaki RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 131 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED Alongside formal training, our workforce received Our performance significant informal training such as skills We estimate that approximately 85% of our shadowing.
The value of this can be difficult to employees are union members with the remaining quantify, however, we estimate that each full time 15% set apart only due to a long term incentive employee at our mines receives approximately programme we introduced for senior employees.
24 hours of informal training and skills development every year.
Industrial relations was generally calm across all mines in 2016.
There were three industry-wide We also welcomed approximately 600 local student strikes totalling 12 days during May, June and July stagiaires to participate in practical training sessions in Mali.
This included a five day strike from 27 June across all our operations.
to 1 July, although this did not significantly affect production.
The strikes were a result of national INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS union issues rather than any conflict specific to Our policies Randgolds mines.
In each case all employees were The right to freedom of association is enshrined in reminded that we respect their right to adhere to a law in all our countries of operation and we welcome legal strike though they must not prevent employees all forms of labour union representation among our willing to work to exercise such right.
Our partnership approach underpins all were only partially followed by Randgold unions and our industrial relations.
employees, did not significantly impact production and anecdotal evidence suggests our work Union representatives participate in the leadership attendance rates on these national strike days were of our mines for example by attending each mines much higher than our industry peers in the country.
quarterly board meetings, and are able to view and comment on managements presentations and voice There were also many strikes that were avoided any general issues of concern.
They also participate during the year due to our active and constant in management cost reviews and regular dialogues communication with employees and their with each mines general manager.
representatives, helping them to agree to packages that benefit all in the business.
For example, in Our CEO Mark Bristow meets with union Cte dIvoire we intervened to prevent a  during board meetings, at strategic related strike over cost of living rises and helped the planning meetings at least annually, at ad hoc supplier in question to resolve the issue directly with meetings and through holding mass employee the unions.
meetings at each mine twice a year.
All staff are invited to attend these public forums and they The MLAs for both Loulo and Tongon mines were provide an important opportunity for staff to raise signed and renewed for another three years in 2016. issues or ask any questions they feel important A small number of positions were retrenched in directly with the CEO.
2016 as part of closure planning for our Morila mine, which is due to cease operational life in 2019.
A key policy in our prevention of strikes and stoppages is the signing of a Mine Level Agreement ARTISANAL MINING MLA at each mine that is reviewed every three Our policies years.
MLAs are agreed between the local unions Illegal artisanal mining ASM or orpailleurs took and management and set out mutually agreed place on four of our sites in 2016: the Loulorules for each mine on detailed items such as Gounkoto permits in Mali: the Tongon permit in Cte salary increments or the parameters of acceptable dIvoire: and our Kibali concession in the DRC.
The presence of these miners on our sites is problematic because there is no monitoring of human rights infringements such as child labour.
Their activity, if not structured, can increase poverty, degrade land, increase insecurity and release dangerous chemicals, including cyanide and mercury, into the environment and water supply.
For example, at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex, water testing of the Falm River conducted downstream of ASM sites showed high levels of contaminants and dangerous pollutants in the river.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 132 CASE STUDY 2 In line with both IFC guidelines and International Despite improvements, ASM remains an issue Council on Mining and Metals guidance, our policy at Loulo-Gounkoto, where there is a significant for managing illegal ASM within our permits and community of orpailleurs on a site adjacent to the host communities is based on a no conflict and Gounkoto haul road, posing a security threat to our no invasions approach.
We state that wherever surrounding communities.
We have identified some possible we will work with our host countries land within our permit where orpailleurs are already governments to offer alternative livelihoods either located for the creation of official ASM corridors, on our mines or in new economic activities such as and will seek further assistance from the Malian agriculture.
We also seek to work in partnership government in 2017 to transfer the property to the with our host communities, NGOS, international ASM community.
institutions and regional and national governments to develop mutually beneficial long term strategies.
As of last year our group social and environment officer, Hilaire Diarra, has been chairman of the Mali Mining Industry Committee on Artisanal Mining a Our performance committee that brings together government partners, ASM activity reduced significantly at our Kibali and representatives from other Mali based mining Loulo-Gounkoto permits in 2016, though remained companies, local authorities and representatives constant at our Tongon permit.
from the ASM community to support the Malian governments action plan to end illegal mining.
At Kibali the illegal ASM community was reduced by over 75% following the creation of peaceful corridors, as described in the case study below.
This success is the result of a long multi-stakeholder consultation, involving national government, NGOs and the ASM community all of which enabled the creation of designated ASM corridors near our permit.
Once peace was restored, dialogue between CREATING PEACEFUL Kibali and the local community resumed this time with the support and involvement of the CORRIDORS government and PAX who helped to represent the ASM community.
With the support of government, In 2016 we made significant reductions to the ASM we were able to propose the establishment of population at the Kibali mine, and we have been dedicated corridors of land just outside the Kibali able to peacefully relocate over 75% of the illegal permit for ASM use.
The corridors consist of six miners.
adjacent plots to be owned and mined by ASM collectives and are administered by the local youth Early in the year, relationships were tense and it association.
Kibali provided geologists to evaluate appeared that it would be a very challenging year.
and provide reports on the gold profile of the land.
In March, despite a history of peaceful dialogue While small pockets of ASM activity still remain with the ASM community around Kibali, some on our permit, it is greatly reduced and our members of the community including unemployed relationship with the ASM community has greatly youths demonstrated in local villages and improved.
Encouragingly armed with their attempted to reopen closed quarries.
The own land to mine and a professional geology demonstrations escalated to attacks on police report, the ASM community is now looking for stations and the army was brought in to restore outside mining partners to help scale up and peace.
Following the demonstrations we engaged professionalise their activities.
with the Dutch ASM-focused NGO PAX and held a number of workshops to help restore peace in the nearby town of Aru.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 133 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED GENDER EQUALITY Plans & priorities for 2017 Our policies Despite the positive progress on safety this year, Randgold is an equal opportunity employer, and we want to continue to raise the bar and drive we have transparent non-discrimination policies in performance towards our goal of zero lost time place and actively encourage women to apply for injuries in 2017.
This is a top priority for 2017 and jobs with us.
will require constant renewal and awareness-raising of our safety culture by all members of the workforce We find, however, that attracting women to mining daily.
in our countries of operation tends to be difficult as gender norms, cultural traditions and legislative Next year will see the full results of our occupational barriers can all deter women from working in the health hygiene surveys published at Loulo, extractives sector.
Gounkoto and Kibali and we will develop critical control management plans CCMPs to ensure our Our performance workers exposure to contaminants is minimised based on these results, both at Loulo and across the In 2016, our workforce including contractors group.
We will also continue to roll out screening for included 624 women, employed in positions such Hepatitis B as required.
as geologists, electricians, procurement, accounts and operations.
In total, 131 women or 21% of Building on our stable industrial and labour relations our female workforce are at management and in 2017 will include the introduction of an employee supervisory level and 493 are general workers.
satisfaction measurement survey at Kibali and Women make up 5% of our total workforce and they across the group.
Recreating Kibalis successful relocation of the ASM We support activities that create or develop community at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex will be additional employment opportunities for women in another major challenge for us in 2017. the community as well.
For example in Mali, a soap manufacturing project provides revenue for more than 40 women, while in the DRC a womens cooking collective, Mama Malewa, has mobile kitchens on site to provide lunch for our workers.
We have also established womens market gardens around each mine and encourage our onsite caterers to source produce from there whenever possible.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 134 2 3 FOR OUR HOST COUNTRIES AND COMMUNITIES TOTAL TAXES AND DIVIDENDS TO HOST COUNTRIES Cte dlvoire Mali Democratic Republic of Congo $ million $ million $ million 300 90 35 80 250 28 70 200 60 21 50 150 40 14 100 30 20 7 50 10 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 $700 million INVESTED IN HOST COUNTRY INFRASTRUCTURE OVER 5 YEARS OF PROCUREMENT SPEND WITH LOCAL % 345km OF NATIONAL SUPPLIERS ROADS MAINTAINED 34 MALARIA % RELATED % ABSENTEEISM 37 12 VOLUNTARY TESTING AND COUNSELLING FOR HIV 28% MALARIA INCIDENCE 520 000 CONDOMS DISTRIBUTED 3 We are guests in our host countries and We multiply these contributions through our local communities and rely on their support, goodwill and first procurement policy.
Therefore, contributing to their social and economic All our countries of operation are Extractive development has been a central pillar of our Industries Transparency Initiative EITI compliant business since inception.
and we are fully committed to being transparent about all payments.
Our 2016 materiality assessment highlighted several community and economic development aspects as Another tangible contribution is our establishment priority issues for our stakeholders.
These included and maintenance of vital infrastructure.
In the local and national employment, closure planning, remote corners of the developing countries which malaria, HIV AIDS, community development and host our operations, most of the infrastructure local economic development.
All of these issues is either of poor quality or lacking altogether.
are addressed in this chapter.
Therefore, our maintenance and development of infrastructure such as roads, power facilities CREATING NATIONAL ECONOMIC VALUE and border crossings help bring about both the Mining companies have a generally poor history successful operation of our mines and positive of linking the extraction of a countrys mineral changes for the local community and country.
resources to national economic development.
Randgold seeks to set itself apart from this past and Over the long term we are also committed to leaving is determined to help our host countries use their behind a thriving legacy that extends beyond the life resources to spark economic growth.
of the mines see Closure planning section.
We make substantial contributions to the treasuries Our performance of our countries through joint ownership structures As seen in the table below we made significant for all our mines the states of Mali, Cte dIvoire and contributions to the revenues of our host countries.
DRC all have at least a 10% stake in the respective mine, and thus pay dividends and royalties as well as all the relevant taxes.
For example, in the 20 years that Randgold has operated in Mali we have contributed over $4.7 billion into the economy of the country in the form of taxes, royalties, wages, payments to local suppliers and community investments.
FIGURE 12: ECONOMIC VALUE STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December $000 2016 2015 2014 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED 3 Gold sales 1 546 029 1 394 889 1 434 872 3 Finance income 1 553 4 222 2 769 3 Sundry income net - 2 042 9 760 1 Government portion of Morila - 2 564 - Total economic value generated 1 547 582 1 403 717 1 447 491 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED OR TO BE DISTRIBUTED 2 Operating costs 557 060 620 962 592 956 3 Finance costs 3 193 1 229 7 848 Employee salaries, wages and other benefits before taxes 100 572 77 588 75 772 Dividend payments to providers of capital 61 705 55 744 46 274 Payments to governments including corporate taxes, custom duties, dividends etc 248 809 182 602 214 966 3 Exploration and corporate expenditure 43 010 48 885 40 869 Sundry net expenses 21 765 - - 4 Community investment 4 404 5 486 6 742 Total economic value distributed or to be distributed 1 040 518 992 496 985 427 Economic value retained and re-invested 507 064 411 221 461 974 The information in this economic value statement is extracted from the financial statements, underlying accounting records and other financial data.
This non-GAAP information is, however, intended to summarise the overall contribution of the group to its stakeholders and is not intended to replace or provide an alternative to the audited IFRS financial statements.
1 This amount represents 50% of the dividends paid to the State of Mali, and is also included in Payments to governments.
The State of Malis attributable portion of the Morila operation is not included in the Randgold financial statements.
2 Total cash costs excluding royalties, salaries, employment taxes and custom duties.
3 Refer to page F-35 of the financial statements for further information on this figure.
4 Total spend on community development, including advantageous infrastructure development and philanthropy.
This figure represents Randgolds total equity stake in community investment.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 137 CASE STUDY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR HOST COUNTRIES AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED Our investment in host country infrastructure has All these contributions are further multiplied by now reached more than $700 million over the our local first supplier policy.
For example, the past five years.
This includes $73 million for the construction of the new Azambi hydrostation in construction and maintenance of roads across all the DRC in 2017 will be completed exclusively by our countries of operation see Paving the way Congolese owned and operated contractors See for economic development and the development Powering up local industry.
of hydropower capacity in the DRC, where it is estimated just 1% of rural populations have access to power.
IMPROVING ACCESS TO WORLD HERITAGE IN PAVING THE WAY THE DRC During 2016, as part of our partnership with the FOR ECONOMIC Garamba National Park in the DRC, we invested in the improvement of supply routes in and around DEVELOPMENT the park.
It is hoped that not only will these routes help to improve the security situation and reduce poaching in Garamba, but also improve access for visitors and thereby spark further economic By constructing and maintaining new roads development in the region.
or improving existing roads, we ensure critical supplies are delivered to our sites on time and In total, we maintain 375km of national roads in our in a cost efficient manner while, for the local host countries, and have invested more than community, better roads improve freedom of $73 million on roads over the past five years.
movement and open up new opportunities for trade and development.
Therefore, we consider Country National roads maintained investments in roads one of our most important contributions to the local and national economic DRC 245km development.
Cte dIvoire 60km DEVELOPING NEW SUPPLY LINES Mali 70km Our Kibali mine is located in a remote northeast corner of the DRC and is more than 2 400km away from the capital, Kinshasa.
The best way for us to supply the mine is to roadfreight goods via Aru at the border with Uganda.
Aru is just 180km away from Kibali but the journey used to take several days.
Thanks to our upgrade of the Aru-Doko road, the journey has been reduced to just a few hours.
The Doko-Aru road is now heavily used by both the mine and the community, sparking new markets and sustained economic activity along the route.
We have seen similar transformations in Mali with the Loulo-Keneiba road and in Cte dIvoire from the Tongon-Nielle road.
BETTER BORDER CROSSINGS Most of the supplies for our Loulo-Gounkoto complex in Mali are transported from Senegal and until recently had to pass through a poorly positioned border crossing.
We worked in partnership with the Malian and Senegalese governments to fund a new border crossing at Koudan about 30km from our operations and funded the construction of a customs house.
This has not only led to improved transport times for our supplies, it has also given an economic boost to Koudan which is now a thriving hub for trade and business in the local area.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 138 CASE STUDY 3 All our suppliers must respect our sustainability DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE LOCAL policies and we include mandatory clauses SUPPLY CHAINS in supplier contracts to ensure they adopt our Our policies environmental, human rights, and anti-corruption Our suppliers are critical to the efficient functioning policies.
These terms extend to their subof all our operations and we have a network of contractors whenever practical.
Where local 890 suppliers around the globe that we procure suppliers do not meet our standards or are lacking goods and services from.
We follow a local first some elements of appropriate environmental and procurement policy, and wherever possible seek safety standards we try to facilitate skills training to use local suppliers and contractors to meet our and mentoring support from leading international needs.
By contracting with local suppliers we are companies to help build local capacity.
able to create additional employment opportunities, raise household income levels, improve skills and to diversify local economies.
Frank is excited by the opportunity, he explains, ENGINEERING I am an A1 engineer by training but there were not many jobs in this area.
Randgold doesnt just give ECONOMIC GROWTH, us jobs it helps us to start companies and learn.
I want to learn more and I want to have an open SAVING COSTS workshop so I can teach others.
I already have 20 boys from local schools coming to the workshop on Frank Kissoni and Jeff Munkina are a great a Friday afternoon to learn about motor repair.
example of the entrepreneurial spirit in the DRC that our Kibali mine seeks to foster and support.
During the second part of 2016, the Kibali procurement team and technical department From conveyers to crushers, trucks to tractors, worked with Frank and Jeff, who both grew up in each mine has hundreds of motors on site that are Watsa, to upgrade their workshop and provide critical for its continuing operation.
When a motor advice and assistance on areas such as safety breaks down or wears, we act quickly to replace excellence.
They also used spare electrical it with one of many spares we have on site, and cables left over from the construction of Kibali send the faulty engine for repair.
Until recently for the upgrade of the electricity supply at the for Kibali, the closest repair workshop was 650km workshop.
This meant that, in addition to the cost of repair, we also had to spend By the middle of December, Frank and Jeff had money and time transporting the motors for repair.
successfully passed an assessment and are It also became apparent that the quality of repairs now working with motor rewind specialists Zest did not always meet our standards and a motor International to provide additional training on the could be sent for repair multiple times.
latest technologies for motor repairs and rewinds.
Kibali hopes to start sending the bulk of its motors With that in mind and guided by our policy of there for repair in 2017. local first procurement, we sought to support talented engineers closer to Kibali who could fix The arrangement will save the mine time and our motors.
A local company, Doko Cleaning and transport costs, and deliver a higher quality repair, Maintenance Service DCMS, who provide camp while also increasing the skills development and maintenance services for Kibali, indicated to us economic benefit of the community.
that some of their staff Frank Kissoni and Jeff Munkina were engineers and would be interested in setting up a motor repair workshop near Kibali.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 139 CASE STUDY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR HOST COUNTRIES AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED The companies are all grateful for the opportunity.
POWERING UP LOCAL TES general manager Oscar Siviwe explains, I am a civil engineer by training, and working as an INDUSTRY engineer during the RAP construction inspired me to start Top Engineering.
We started doing small In 2016 we began construction of Azambi, the jobs for Kibali like building the fences for villages third hydropower station for our Kibali mine in the and the exclusion zone, then iron sheeting work DRC.
Construction will continue through 2017 and brickwork.
We now employ 25 people full time and it should start producing power in early 2018. and 10 contractors.
My ambition is to grow my The construction will be carried out entirely by company to more than 100 people.
As a part of our partnership approach Randgold The three local Congolese contractors undertaking has helped IOB, TES and Traminco with training, the project are Inter Oriental Builders IOB, Top including full safety training, which has helped Engineering Services TES and Traminco: them reach international best practice standards, IOB is responsible for all the earthworks on the and these efforts are having a trickle-down effect.
site including blasting work, the construction of a rubble masonry wall and the concrete works Mr Siviwe continues, Randgold has helped us for the construction of the powerhouse.
Before we started work at TES is responsible for all structural steel works Azambi, they sent us to South Africa for training for the intake structures and the powerhouse.
This has helped us to better Traminco is responsible the concrete works understand how to manage risks in capital for the intake structures and the all cutting, projects and how to make sure we will run a profit, bending and reinforcement work for the entire and safety standards.
We only pay back the cost project, as well as the installation of the power of the training when the project ends, which helps lines from the plant to the mine.
My plan is for my company to do the same.
I want to start a training centre in Durba, where we All three companies have a strong track record can train people in plumbing, mechanics and civil with us and, as well as working on previous engineering.
hydroprojects, have worked on the construction of the Roman Catholic Church, the community soccer stadium and the installation of crushing equipment and conveyors on site.
They will work closely with our engineers and capital projects team and we are confident in their ability to deliver a world-class project on time, on budget and up to our standards.
To manage sustainability risks we work closely with We conduct due diligence prior to entering into any all tier one suppliers ie those most critical to supplier agreement, and all suppliers receive copies the mines supply chain to identify and manage of our anti-corruption and sustainability policies.
the environmental, social or economic risk to their Due diligence activities include desk audits, facebusiness as tier one.
For example, our suppliers of to-face meetings and visits to site.
We also conduct cyanide, reagents and explosives are all categorised regular audits and supplier performance reviews in tier one and we require all of these companies to throughout the life of every supply agreement.
Our be certified to the appropriate international industry supplier performance programme is driven by KPIs best practice standard, such as the cyanide code.
that include environmental, social and governance This policy evolved in 2016 and we introduced a new performance factors.
The supplier performance target for all our tier one suppliers to be certified to programme is updated monthly for our tier two ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standard or another and three suppliers, while tier one suppliers are internationally recognised environmental and health monitored daily and weekly due to the critical nature and safety management standard.
We expect our suppliers to achieve a performance rating of 80%.
Where suppliers fail to meet this target, we introduce corrective action plans.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 140 3 At the other end of the supply chain, the gold we In 2016 we conducted an assessment to quantify produce is transported to Rand Refinery Limited how many of our most critical suppliers were Rand Refinery in South Africa.
Rand Refinery is certified to either ISO 14001 or OHSAS 18001 certified by the London Bullion Market Association standards.
In total, 19 out of 30 of these suppliers LBMA, and conforms to the LBMA Responsible were certified and we have put in place work Gold Guidance ensuring it does not source gold programmes with the remaining 11 companies to from areas and operations that contribute to the help them meet these international best practice financing of conflict or the degradation of the standards.
Relevant ISO and OHSAS-related environment.
requirements are now included as part of our tender Our performance documents.
In 2016, we spent a total of $421 million on goods and services procured from local suppliers, We engaged with many local suppliers to improve representing 34% of our total procurement spend.
skills and standards, assessing progress via Randgolds local supplier spend has increased by site procurement staff and technical managers over 15% in two years, as it totalled $364 million in and our work to improve workshop safety with 2014.
DCMS, a Congolese company building a motor repair workshop, is a good example of this see: The management and assessment of our supply Engineering economic growth, saving costs.
We chain was stable and rigorous through the year.
Alongside our weekly and monthly supplier have also facilitated formal training in business performance assessments, we conducted 480 management for 40 local suppliers at our Mali and formal supplier audits in 2016 this represents DRC operations, covering topics such as business 54% of our total supplier base in 2016.
Based on planning, financial analysis, product development the results we implemented three formal corrective and operational risk management.
We plan to complete at least 480 formal supplier audits in 2017.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SNAPSHOT OVER $6 MILLION OF COMMUNITY INVESTMENT IN 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEES Education Food security Primary Potable water Local healthcare economic O Inv vee r s $x tmin ev nested t in th ac e ross Investment for $x Investment for the Construction and development construction and purchase of tractors, rehabilitation of 50 all communities for for the purchase of Investment in new and Investment in new repair of schools, ICT seeds, fertilisers and boreholes, over construction and repair tractors, seeds, impr andoved health clinics improved health Construction and Investment in equipment, exam livestock across all $125 000 invested for of schools, ICT fertilisers and livestock clinics and the and the provision of rehabilitation of over 35 infrastructure such fees, bursaries and communities.
the construction of a equipment, exam fees, across all communities.
provision of medical medical equipment and b ao s r reo hol ad es a s, m nd b ainten rida gn ecs e teacher training.
Including $160 000 water tower in bursaries and teacher Including $160,000 equipment and supplies, including tr aai nnin d th g e c and o n ss igna truc gte io and n Includes $12 000 invested for the Cte dIvoire, and training.
Includes invested for the supplies, including building of a new of 2 community radio installation of a for an adult literacy creation of medium $16 000 for the $12,000 for an adult creation of medium building of a new surgical clinic in stations in Mali.
Solar-powered programme and scale pork and installation of solarsurgical clinic in literacy programme and scale pork and poultry Cote d'Ivoire.
Over $196 000 investment water pumping system $28 000 for the poultry projects in power water pumps Cte dIvoire.
Over $28,000 for the projects in the DRC.
$81,000 invested in in construction of 2 in Mali.
Local women construction of the DRC.
$81 000 invested in construction of community sports ultra sound, radiology trained in soap and jam Mahinamine school ultra-sound, radiology Mahinamine school stadiums in the and the medical in Mali.
making creating new and the medical in Mali.
Local women equipment in employment equipment in trained in soap and the DRC.
jam making creating Microfinance new employment established at all sites.
Microfinance established at all sites.
SCHOOL RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 141 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR HOST COUNTRIES AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED As part of our holistic approach to sustainability Kibali DRC - Total CDC spend of $2 200 068. we also encourage our contractors to be engaged More than $650 000 went to community health members of the local communities, for example by projects, including the provision of ultra-sound offering apprenticeships and training opportunities and radiology equipment, and a contribution of to local youths, making charitable donations or $500 000 was made towards the development contributing to community development projects.
of a new hospital in Watsa: more than $300 000 Some examples of this in 2016 include Maxam, our towards food security and agriculture, including blasting sub-contractor at Tongon, which provided $84 000 for an agriculture centre to train the five new computers to Tongon School, and security company SMO supporting infirmary and maternity local community to establish and operate clinics in the Tongon community.
At Kibali a number poultry, pig and maize projects at scale: and of our contractors contributed equipment, materials over $400 000 invested in education projects, and labour to help with the development of a including $200 000 to restore the technical community sports centre and a local police station.
institute in Isiro and $18 000 on training for 143 local teachers.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Morila Mali - Total CDC spend of Our policies $1 640 258.
Over $1 500 000 went on Our host communities are partners in our business.
agribusiness projects, including the construction They are fundamental to our social license to of two additional lay houses, and purchase of operate and provide us with the dynamic workforce 40 000 new laying hens.
$18 000 was allocated and skills required to operate world-class mines.
for the repair of 12 community boreholes and Our policy is to catalyse socio-economic the drilling of a new borehole for the village of development throughout our communities by Fingola.
Over $7 000 was spent on education working to improve access to education, healthcare, including the provision of new furniture for non-mining employment opportunities such as schools in Domba and Sanso and payment of agriculture and finance.
To ensure the needs and examination fees for students who could not wants of our communities are addressed, we form afford them.
community development committees CDC for each site comprising local leaders and officials as well as youth and women representatives.
The CDC decides how best to allocate the annual community investment budget within five sustainable LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT development categories: education, primary health, Analysis of all local economic development food security, potable water and local economic projects funded by our CDCs in 2016, revealed development.
81 projects in total which have collectively generated over $250 000 in revenue, created Our performance 1 658 jobs and contributed nearly $45 000 in In total, $6.32 million was allocated to CDCs in taxes to host governments.
Investment was allocated to a wide range of community projects including: Tongon Cte dIvoire - Total CDC spend of $1 045 084.
Over $225 000 spent on health projects including a new general surgery and FIGURE 13: ANNUAL CDC INVESTMENT BUDGETS maternity facility at Mbengue.
Over $200 000 $ 2016 2015 2014 on education, including the construction of new primary school classrooms in the villages Loulo 848 410 901 510 238 068 of Kationron and Poungbe, and construction Gounkoto 590 831 1 418 431 735 838 of a nursery school in Tongon village.
Nearly $80 000 spent on tractors for the community to Morila 1 640 258 1 307 054 182 862 aide agricultural development and encourage Tongon 1 045 084 642 509 587 690 entrepreneurship.
Gounkoto Mali - Total CDC spend of $590 831.
Kibali 2 200 068 2 000 000 909 047 Over $77 000 spent on borehole rehabilitation GROUP 6 324 651 6 269 504 2 653 505 and installation of pumps for villages around Gounkoto, and nearly $70 000 spent on agriculture projects including $14 000 for seeds and $24 000 on a solar pump for the community garden borehole.
Over $50 000 spent on community education projects including $12 000 for an adult literacy programme and $10 000 on IT equipment and stationary.
Loulo Mali - Total CDC spend of $848 410.
Over $130 000 went on education, including the construction of a new secondary school in the village of Baboto: 74 tonnes of fertilisers were purchased to help local agriculture: and $23 000 to establish two community radio stations, one in DK village and a second in Djebe village.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 142 3 We dont want to just build schools.
We want to be able to measure the number of people that pass with first class passes.
It is all very well walking around building schools, but its not about schools, its about why you build schools.
Mark Bristow, CEO Moving from inputs to impact In 2016 we also launched a pilot initiative at Kibali to find ways to better quantify our social Education is a social elevator, and an important part return on investment SROI.
The project involves of our community development strategy is to build collaboration with a specialist consultancy to and rehabilitate local schools.
However, simply measure the SROI of the mines investments in a building a school does not automatically lead to the primary school, small-scale pig farming and soap educational outcomes wed like to achieve.
We hope that, if the right methodology can be agreed, it may be possible to perform a wider That is why Randgold also works to improve class quantitative analysis of our community development sizes, pass rates and the number of schools with work in 2017.
In turn, this will help us see where our onsite access to potable water and electricity.
investments have the biggest impact, thus enabling A core part of this is a partnership with World us to direct community support funds to where they Education an international charity aiming to would have maximum impact.
improve the quality of life through education to improve teacher training that yielded impressive Microfinance results in 2016.
For example the schools in the Keneiba area near Loulo-Gounkoto used to be the Another tool we use to support community worst performing in the region and are now one of development is microfinance, ie access to credit the best with pass rates up from just 8% five years for unbanked populations.
It is widely regarded as ago to over 30% in 2016.
This is above the national an important catalyst for local economic and social average.
Other initiatives in this regard in 2016 have included We have worked to support establishment of our mines contributions to exam fees for students accredited microfinance institutions in all our host that cannot afford them and a new bursary scheme communities.
These are CAMIDE at Morila, PAMFin the DRC and in Mali that automatically pays CI at Tongon, Nyesigiso at Loulo-Gounkoto and Uele college fees for school leavers who achieve a Coopec at Kibali.
Over 100 children qualified this year.
Kibali also spent $18 000 on the training of During 2016, these institutions have collectively 150 teachers based near the mine to encourage provided over $1.2 million in loans to more than 100 excellent standards of lesson preparation, homework local businesses for a diverse range of projects, setting and understanding of the curriculum.
The need for these institutions in the community is evidenced by the demand.
For example, Uele Coopec received more than $4 million in credit applications during 2016, while Nyesigiso at Loulo-Gounkoto opened a second office in a nearby village during its first year of operation.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 143 CASE STUDY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR HOST COUNTRIES AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED The academy has already proved life-changing TEEING UP for one six year old, Nassara Coulibaly from the village of Katonon near Tongon.
Because she was OPPORTUNITIES FOR deaf, Nassara was initially excluded from school.
However a tenacious and determined girl, she YOUNG PEOPLE IN continued to follow her sisters when they walked CTE DIVOIRE to school, until the teacher let her stay.
She then tried out for the golf academy and was given a bursary as one of the best students in her village.
From academics to athletics we are committed to discovering and nurturing talent in our host Nassara was introduced to Randgold CEO Mark countries.
Our aim is to help provide young Bristow, who asked Tongons medical doctor and people in our communities with the opportunity social team to investigate her hearing issues.
The and support to develop their talents whatever team found that she has bilateral sensorineural they may be, thereby contributing to improved deafness, and that her hearing could be recovered outcomes through the community.
with the help of hearing aids.
In December, we sent Nassara and her family to Abidjan to have That is why in 2016 in partnership with Ivorian hearing aids fitted and for speech therapy.
sport promotion company Team STL, we sponsored a youth golf-training academy in Cte In 2017, we aim to introduce a similar rugby dIvoire aimed at providing talented children and focused programme in Mali.
young people in Cte dIvoire with an opportunity to receive high quality schooling, while also developing their athletic skills and golfing prowess.
We have committed $50 000 a year for the next three years to provide bursaries for 100 talented 5 to 15 year olds from all over Cte dIvoire.
In April more than 7000 young people from the Mbengue, Diawala, Sohouo and Korhogo villages near the Tongon mine competed for a place at the academy, with 48 selected to join.
An additional 20 talented young people from the Guiembe district joined the academy in September 2016.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 144 3 HEALTH IN THE COMMUNITY Our policies The successful operation of our mines hinges on LET US SPRAY: HOW WE TAKE ON MALARIA the health and well-being of our workforce.
Since Malaria can be a life threatening disease and many of our countries of operation are plagued by a combination of high levels of disease and low levels sub-Saharan Africa suffers the heaviest global of public spending on healthcare, a key priority of burden from the disease, with the World Health our sustainability efforts is the investment in reliable Organisation estimating that 90% of global healthcare for our workforce, their families and the malaria cases and 92% of malarial deaths in local community.
It is a major inhibitor of economic growth too.
For example, Our policy is to provide free basic medical care research suggests a 10% reduction in malarial to our workforce, their immediate families and to prevalence is associated with 0.3% higher community members within a 15km radius of each 2 economic growth.
To achieve this we build health clinics both on site For Randgold the cost of malaria is measured in and in villages near each mine, funding their start-up working days lost.
In 2016, 5 179 days were lost with the aim of passing control and responsibility for due to malarial illnesses, representing more than community clinics to local doctors and the regional 28% of all absenteeism and thus productivity health authorities, once they are established.
drives our efforts to reduce malaria incidence around our mines.
Alongside the provision of a basic healthcare service, our health programmes also treat the most In 2016 our anti-malaria efforts included the pressing community health issues and thus prioritise malaria, HIV AIDS and waterborne diarrheal distribution of more than 13 000 impregnated diseases.
In 2016 we also began a voluntary mosquito nets, working with an entomology Hepatitis B screening and treatment programme consultant to understand which chemicals will be for workers at our Mali operations see Introducing most effective to spray at each site, training and Hepatitis B screening.
auditing to ensure correct spraying of chemicals and expanding the areas sprayed.
In total we Our performance spent $590 000 on the fight against malaria in In 2016 our clinics conducted nearly 80 000 medical 2016, and are pleased to report a 28% drop in consultations for employees, their dependents and our year on year malarial incidence rate.
rate dropped from 38.9% in 2015 to 28.0% in Ultimately we want local communities to be able 2016.
See Figure 15 on page 146. to deliver excellent healthcare independent of our mines, and thus were encouraged that in 2016 the Over the longer term we are encouraged that proportion of community members and dependents malaria incidence at all sites is significantly attending our mine clinics dropped by 1% and 2% below the original baseline.
For example respectively for a second consecutive year.
This when we opened our Morila mine the malarial is encouraging evidence that better healthcare is 3 incidence rate was a staggering 192%, and the now available in the communities, and the town of rate is now down to just 13%.
At Kibali our Durba a good example of this see case study on youngest mine - the malaria incidence rate has the following page.
In 2016 we also started a new initiative to screen See Figure 15 on page 146. local women for cervical cancer at our Loulo mine.
1 Cervical cancer accounts for about 300 000 deaths http: www.
int mediacentre factsheets fs094 en 2 https: www.
gov books NBK2624 1 a year world-wide of which more than 80% occur in 3 P er capita incidence can be over 100% as an employee might the developing world, although with early diagnosis suffer it more than once.
the disease can be treated.
We arranged for an experienced midwife from Bamako to join the DK clinic near our Loulo mine, to run the clinic and train local midwives on the detection of cervical cancer.
A total of 68 local women were screened and one case of carcinoma was detected.
More screenings are scheduled for 2017.
gov pmc articles PMC2802672 FIGURE 14: TOTAL MEDICAL CONSULTATIONS 2016 2015 2014 Total number of medical consultations 78 496 80 758 100 644 Employees 72% 69% 70% Employee dependents 16% 18% 18% Local community 12% 13% 12% RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 145 CASE STUDY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR HOST COUNTRIES AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED If a Kibali employee or their dependent goes to the CO-OP CLINIC co-operative clinic, Kibali arranges direct payment of consultation fees there to relieve pressure on DELIVERS the mines clinic.
Management of the co-operative clinic recently reinvested much of its income back AFFORDABLE into the clinic, and in 2017 is due to open a proud COMMUNITY new 100-bed hospital on the same site, at a cost of $209 000.
The hospital includes maternity care HEALTHCARE facilities and intensive care facilities, including monitoring equipment and respirators.
Center Hospitalier fide Kibali is a health clinic Dr Atanzi explains, We get some support from in Durba, DRC, that was initially established by the government for public health issues such as Randgold and in August 2014 was transferred to leprosy and tuberculosis, but no assistance for the community control.
maintenance or development of facilities.
Kibali has helped transform healthcare for us.
I used to Led by Dr Joseph Atanzi, it is now run by a team work at a government clinic in Durba and there is of four doctors and 25 nurses as a co-operative no comparison between the facilities there and at clinic that offers good quality, affordable healthcare our co-operative clinic.
Kibali has been a good to the community, a combination that has made it partner.
It provided us with some new facilities very popular in the community.
Dr Atanzi estimates and the opportunity to improve healthcare for our that he and his team provide a minimum of 500 community.
Now we are working to make sure it consultations every week with the top health is sustainable, because we know the mine wont issues being malaria, typhoid and respiratory always be here and we are preparing already.
The cost of a consultation is just $3, a price that is affordable for most of the local community.
However, in emergency situations or if patients are unable to pay immediately, the clinic will defer payment for a few weeks or until the patient is well enough to work again and be able to pay for their treatment.
FIGURE 15: MALARIA INCIDENCE % Baseline 2016 2015 2014 Morila 192.0 2000 12.6 22.5 26.3 Loulo 51.1 2005 27.8 44.2 33.6 Gounkoto 74.0 2011 39.7 48.4 51.3 Kibali 113.1 2011 26.4 35.7 65.7 Tongon 132.7 2010 32.5 42.2 50.7 GROUP 28.0 38.9 49.9 RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 146 CASE STUDY 3 The reduced rates of malaria are not only good for MASS ADMINISTRATION the individuals: it is directly good for business as it reduces absenteeism and improves productivity.
OF ANTI-MALARIALS Total absenteeism caused by malaria in 2016 decreased by 57%, 31% and 18% at Morila, Loulo, and Gounkoto respectively compared to 2015.
Malaria incidence rates dropped across the group in 2016 and we saw the most significant reductions Based on the success of this programme, we plan at our Mali operations.
to improve adherence in the Malian operations and to extend it to our operation in Cte dIvoire in We attribute this largely to the trial of a mass drug 2017. administration programme across our Malian operations which for the first time offered free anti-malarial drugs for the workers at our Loulo, Gounkoto and Morila mines during the high malarial transmission season as a preventive measure.
The programme was well received.
Between 30 - 50% of workers chose to take the antimalarial medication depending on site and the effectiveness of this programme is evidenced by a: 44% drop in malarial incidence at Morila: 37% drop at Loulo: and an 18% drop at Gounkoto where the workers were less adherent.
Following the success of our partnership with HIV Reducing HIV prevalence in our AIDS specialist NGO Soutoura at Loulo in 2015, we communities worked to establish similar partnerships at Tongon HIV transmission rates are dropping in the rest of the and Kibali in 2016.
At Tongon in Cte dIvoire this world, but the virus remains prevalent across subhas already helped more than double the number Saharan Africa, with the region now accounting for of VCTs conducted.
We also seek to train peer more than two thirds of the worlds HIV infections.
Our HIV programme seeks to slow and ultimately In total our HIV AIDS programme in 2016: halt the spread of the disease through awareness Distributed more than half a million condoms, raising and education.
We encourage safe sex nearly 20% more than 2015. by distributing free contraception and promote Provided 7 068 free VCTs to both our workforce Voluntary Counselling and Testing VCTS.
VCTs are and local communities, a 37% increase on a particularly important way to halt the spread of the 2015. virus, as it is estimated that more than half of people Reduced HIV prevalence by more than 30% infected in sub-Saharan Africa are not aware of their across the group.
This is why increasing the number of VCTs we conduct every year is a KPI we monitor and report on.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 147 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR HOST COUNTRIES AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED One of the main developments at Morila in 2016 CLOSURE PLANNING was the review and restructuring of the agribusiness Our policies initiatives to continue building on success.
This From the very start of a mines operations, we plan has included inviting market specialists to for its closure.
No mine operates until we have commercialise and scale-up different business agreed a closure plan for the mine area with the host units.
The production and manufacturing units have country government, including a ring-fenced budget been assigned to former workers in the community set aside to meet closure obligations when the time and a number of project developers, research and comes.
Our closure planning is guided by each financial institutions, including IFC World Bank, host countrys legislative requirements, as well as have been engaged.
The developments are based IFC guidelines.
on the Songhai model of integrated agriculture and production, which was established in Benin in 1985 Throughout operations we then invest substantially and has been successfully introduced to to build local capacity for non-mining based 15 countries across Africa.
A delegation from economic activity, training for alternative Songhai, including founder Father Godfrey employment, promoting entrepreneurialism and Nzamuzo, visited Morila and confirmed the continuous rehabilitating land.
A key part of this is projects viability.
The next step is to obtain official our integration of agribusiness planning within our endorsement from the Malian government.
During closure policy, meaning that at the time of closure all January 2017 representatives from Morila mine and mines should have a thriving and locally appropriate its partners, the Group Kledu and the UN Womens group of industries to support the local economy Organisation, presented plans to the Malian minister long after a mine has closed down.
of Industrial Development who described the project as innovative and timely.
We recognise that the successful closure of a mine is as important to our host countries and Agribusiness projects for closure planning communities as the successful operation of one.
progressed on all other sites in 2016, even though Thus each individual closure plan is regularly they are all many years from closure.
These reviewed and comprises robust plans to ensure included: all health and safety requirements are met, that a At Tongon A pilot fish farming project has healthy ecosystem is restored with as much of the been developed using best practice from Morila original biodiversity as possible, and that economic and in 2016 produced and sold its first tonnes and land use plans are developed in full consultation of fish.
The production of jute, a high yield fibre with local communities and the national government.
used in the manufacture of bags and garden We also undertake a social closure impact twine, is also being fostered on site.
assessment in the run-up to closure.
At Loulo-Gounkoto The first year of operation for the new $1.4 million agribusiness training We do not have any plans to divest or sell any of centre was very successful with the first our assets to other purchasers.
If that were the 58 local students completing courses in farming case then any purchaser would have to fulfil all entrepreneurialism.
More partners have also sustainability requirements of our closure plans.
expressed interest in providing financial or other support to the college.
Agribusiness initiatives Our performance produced over 70 tonnes of vegetables and All our mines have detailed and ongoing closure 10 tonnes of broiler chickens.
plans in place and we continued to refine these At Kibali We continue to plan with the DRC throughout 2016. government for the creation of a sustainable palm oil project, which would provide Our Morila mine in Mali is due to cease operational employment opportunities for four times as many life by 2019 and will be Randgolds first mine people as the Kibali mine.
From a peak of around 2 000 staff, the invested in the creation of a small-scale palm oil majority of mining activities have already wound facility to bring to life the potential of the project down and the mine required less than for future investors, and surveyed existing 400 employees in 2016.
However, the agribusiness community capacity to ensure the best model and other economic development investments for the local region is developed.
Trials of maize continued to grow last year.
For example, over flour production are also underway to develop five tonnes of mango and 90 tonnes of fish were a programme with optimal yield for the region, produced during 2016, while our 40 000 laying which can then be rolled out across the area.
hens are capable of producing 1 000 trays of eggs We also brought in an agribusiness specialist a day.
The fish business has also put in place a Chris Ben Associates, from Kinshasa, to help plan to sell produce to the Bamako fish market in establish poultry and pork projects and lead Malis capital city.
Unfortunately egg production community training.
was impacted by an outbreak of Newcastle disease in March which resulted in the death of many of the From catering to construction, soap making to laying birds.
However, we have since restocked our shopping we foster many projects in the community laying houses, and built additional ones.
Our CEO that support entrepreneurialism and local economic met the newly-appointed Malian Minister of Mines development.
Further details on these can be who expressed his satisfaction with the mine closure found in the Community development and Building projects.
sustainable local supply chain sections of this report.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 148 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR HOST COUNTRIES AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED OUR MINES DONT JUST HARVEST GOLD To help combat food insecurity and as part of our plans to help diversify local economies and leave a sustainable economic legacy, we have invested heavily in a number of agribusiness projects in our communities of operation 1 Fish 2 Poultry 3 Mango 4 Maize 5 Hot pepper 6 Palm oil 7 Agribusiness 8 Pork 9 Honey 10 Jute centre Fish farming expanded New poultry sheds at 8 hectares of mango 80 hectares of maize 9 tonnes of hot pepper Working with experts to Pork project established 700 behives around the Nearly 12 hectares of at Morila and Tongon.
At farms and community grown in the community produced and sold by develop out grower at Kibali.
89 pigs and community and 96 on jute planted around 3 57 students 24 floating cages and Morila 40 000 layers outgrowers at Morila around Tongon.
Trials of Tongon community palm oil production at piglets in the site producing honey for villages near Tongon, to successfully completed 13 earth ponds at produced 1 000 trays of producing 5 tonnes of maize flour production women in 2016.
Small scale palm Sekonkaha and the community and for produce jute for phase one agribusiness oil factory producing Morila produced 90 eggs per day.
Poultry mango for the community underway at Kibali to Poungbe pigsties at sale in Bamako.
biodegradable bags for training and beginning 3 646 boxes of palm tonnes of fish in 2016. project at Kibali and Del Monte.
develop a project for the Tongon, to produce sale in Abidjan and phase two.
42 tonnes of soap and generating 15 cages in Tongon agribusiness centre has area.
pork for sale to the beyond.
grains, 10 tonnes of $65 000 of revenue produced 429kg of fish 3 000 layers who will community.
meat and 70 tonnes of in 2016. in Q4 2016. produce 2 200 eggs per vegetables produced day.
produced at Tongon Partners in the and 1 000 layers given agribusiness centre to villages of Kantonon include: Agriprofocus, and Korokara.
GIZ, UN women, UNIDO and the regional development agency.
3 6 10 4 7 TRAINING CENTRE 8 2 5 9 1 RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 150 150 3 OUR MINES DONT JUST HARVEST GOLD To help combat food insecurity and as part of our plans to help diversify local economies and leave a sustainable economic legacy, we have invested heavily in a number of agribusiness projects in our communities of operation 1 Fish 2 Poultry 3 Mango 4 Maize 5 Hot pepper 6 Palm oil 7 Agribusiness 8 Pork 9 Honey 10 Jute centre Fish farming expanded New poultry sheds at 8 hectares of mango 80 hectares of maize 9 tonnes of hot pepper Working with experts to Pork project established 700 behives around the Nearly 12 hectares of at Morila and Tongon.
3 6 10 4 7 TRAINING CENTRE 8 2 5 9 1 RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 151 151 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR HOST COUNTRIES AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED HUMAN RIGHTS AND SECURITY FORCES Our policies Randgold operates in remote regions of Africa SECURING HUMAN RIGHTS where human rights may not be fully recognised or Randgold monitors that security forces respected.
In this context we believe it is critical implement the companys human rights policy that our company not only upholds the fundamental by ensuring that: human rights of any stakeholder impacted by our strict due diligence procedures are in place operations, but that we also proactively use our prior to recruitment, including a requirement influence with local communities, suppliers and to be accredited according to relevant UN others to raise awareness of the importance of agencies: universal human rights.
This is not only the right contractual requirements include human thing to do, but a material business concern.
rights clauses: Respect for human rights leads to improved compulsory training is provided for all livelihoods and security and this reduces the risk of security providers in the UN Voluntary Randgold operations being disrupted or damaged.
Principles on Business and Human Rights: and To help embed the UN Voluntary Principles on a formal disciplinary procedure is in place Business and Human Rights into all our operations should any personnel be subject to credible Randgold has a comprehensive and publicly allegations of serious human rights abuse.
available human rights policy covering, but not limited to, the protection of human rights in employment, community resettlement and engagement of private security forces.
Other Our performance core policies such as our code of conduct, antiRandgold has never been subject to any allegations corruption and anti-bribery policy, and conflict free of serious human rights abuses or breaches of gold policy also include human rights aspects.
All humanitarian law throughout over 20 years of staff are trained in these policies both at induction operation, and this remained the case in 2016. and where relevant through stand-alone training programmes.
For example, compulsory training We track any human rights infringements through is provided for all security providers in the UN our grievance mechanism, and none of the 63 Voluntary Principles on Business and Human Rights.
grievances registered this year were human rights related.
There were also no breaches of human We proactively encourage respect for human rights rights clauses in supplier contracts in 2016. by including detailed human rights obligations within all supplier contracts.
These put a legal duty on In total we facilitated human rights training for our contractors, large and small, to comply with 1 594 people in 2016, including mine security Randgolds zero tolerance in areas such as bribery, agents and local police and citizens near our Kibali any form of forced or vulnerable labour including mine in DRC.
child labour, corporal punishment or infringement of freedom of association.
We also undertake due RESETTLEMENT diligence before engaging with new suppliers to Sometimes the construction or expansion of a mine ensure they do not have a history of human rights or its infrastructure means that local communities infringements.
Resettlement is one of the most sensitive challenges a mining company can To manage human rights risks we track human face, and if not well managed can harm local rights infringements through both our grievance livelihoods, lead to fines from government and mechanism see Our governance section of ultimately damage relationships with the host this report and through the annual reviews of all community.
contractors and suppliers, which include ensuring compliance with human rights-related clauses.
Our policies We are committed to minimising involuntary In regards to security forces, it is the companys settlement and only resettle individuals or policy not to arm any security forces at its gold communities as a last resort when absolutely mines and nor does it provide benefits to any armed necessary for our operations.
groups who have committed or been credibly accused of human rights abuses.
The crux of our security is the strong bonds and real partnerships that we have built with our host communities.
Ultimately it is these relationships that keep our mines secure.
Beyond this, Randgold utilises certain private security companies to protect its gold mines and is protected by governmental forces which sign legally binding contracts to uphold the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in all safety, security and policing matters.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 152 3 In 2017, we will complete the RAP in relation to When resettlement does need to take place, our the new Gorumbwa pit, and two further smaller policy is designed to protect the affected person or RAPs are planned: one at Loulo in Mali where the community at the centre of the process.
To do this construction of the haul road for Baboto expansion we continually engage with the affected households will impact on some farmlands: and another at from the start of the process to develop an agreed Kibali for the construction of the power lines to Resettlement Action Plan RAP.
We estimate this impacted 123 community part of all our RAP agreements is ensuring that the fields and nine households.
There are currently no standard of living is improved or at the very least further RAPS planned for 2017. restored to an equal level for all affected people.
All RAPs are informed by the relevant national Plans and priorities for 2017 legislation and IFC Performance Standards on Land In 2017, the priority will be the looming closure of Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement.
Morila and the scaling up of agribusinesses and other commercial opportunities on the site.
Our performance During 2016, we undertook one small resettlement at It will also see Randgold continue to work with Kibali as part of the development of the hydropower suppliers to improve the number who qualify for station.
This involved compensation to community ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification, and we members for loss of gardens and agricultural land to will undertake at least 480 formal supplier audits in build the access road to the Azambi project site.
We 2017. also started the process of relocating nearly 1 500 households to allow for the development of the Community development programmes will continue Gorumbwa satellite pit at Kibali.
As part of this RAP and we hope to progress ideas such as a rugby all affected households were offered either a new academy in Mali, educational attainment initiatives, house with access to electricity and potable water the further roll out of cervical cancer screening and or a cash settlement to build their own home.
So far, to continue to build early relations with communities 97% of affected households have opted for financial around Massawa as that project goes to feasibility compensation, which we provide along with training phase.
on financial management, livestock rearing and agriculture, human rights and womens development for the affected people.
FIGURE 17: RESETTLEMENT DATA Projected for 2017 2016 2015 2014 Number of households resettled 1 482 01 25 29 RAP expenditure $16.1 million $76 000 $1.7 million $0.4 million 1 No households were resettled in 2016.
However compensation for some gardens and fields was provided.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 153 CASE STUDY Nos Vies en Partage f o u n d a t i o n S H A R I N G P R O S P E R I T Y SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR HOST COUNTRIES AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED Some of the organisations receiving support from NOS VIES EN PARTAGE Nos Vies en Partage include: Family care, Uganda - An organisation that FOUNDATION runs projects focused with poverty alleviation in Northern Uganda.
Recent projects include the establishment of a school for war orphans.
Separate to our core work, Randgold has One Heart, Kenya - A non-profit organisation supported the establishment of a charity, the Nos that aims to break the cycle of poverty and Vies en Partage Foundation.
The title translates as change the future for orphans and abandoned sharing prosperity.
Association pour la Promotion Rurale The aim of the foundation is to extend the benefits APRU, DRC - As association providing of development beyond Randgolds communities psychological assistance to young people and countries of operation, to the needy in other released by the Lords Resistance Army to help part of Africa.
The foundation has a particular them transition back into society.
focus on women and children, who tend to benefit Survivors Fund, Rwanda - An organisation least from economic growth particularly in gold dedicated to helping rebuild the lives of mining where most jobs are still taken by men.
survivors of the Rwandan genocide.
ONG Wo Pile Sanga Orphanage, Cote Since inception in 2014, the foundation has dIvoire - An orphanage caring for children delivered support either through the provision of orphaned by war and AIDS as well as equipment or through financial assistance to 55 handicapped and abandoned children.
charities across 15 sub-Saharan African countries, Association des personnes Handicapes fide including Benin, Cameroon, the Republic of Dakar Plateau BASE, Senegal - A volunteer Congo, Nigeria and Togo, as well as our host organisation providing computer, literacy countries.
and social skills training for disabled and handicapped people in Senegal.
Pouponnire I - Orphanage established in Mali in 1990 to care for abandoned babies and mentally retarded children.
SOS villages in Mali - Orphanage protecting children through the support ofimpoverished families, aimed at preventing abandonment of children by providing shelters and hosting families to orphans.
The foundation is chaired by Randgolds former chairman, Philippe Litard, and is funded through money raised by sponsored motorbike tours completed by Randgold CEO Mark Bristow, his sons, colleagues and volunteer businessmen.
The 8 400km journey completed in 2016 took the riders from Mombasa in Kenya to the mouth of the Congo River in the DRC and, with the tremendous support of in-country business partners, raised approximately $2.5 million for the foundation.
To date Mark and his teams of riders have completed five trips around and across Africa to fund the charity.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 154 3 4 FOR OUR PLANET % 3% 36 POWER FROM CLEAN ENERGY SOURCES, 17 000 TREES PLANTED AND MAJOR BIODIVERSITY INITIATIVES INCLUDING 0 TRAINING OVER 670 LOCAL MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS PEOPLE TO PROTECT DESERT ELEPHANTS IN THE GOURMA REGION nd IN MALI FOR 2 CONSECUTIVE YEAR % % 18 1 IMPROVEMENT IN TOTAL LAND DISTURBED BY MINE WATER WITHDRAWAL FOOTPRINT EFFICIENCY 4 The process of extracting gold from the ground One of the most important ways we assess our inevitably results in significant environmental environment risk management systems is through impacts.
However, Randgold invests significantly to the number of environmental incidents that occur.
manage and minimise these impacts, and to ensure we are responsible stewards of the environment we We record three types of environmental incidents, operate in.
with a target to have zero class 1 incidents each year.
The three types of incident are: Environmental issues are important to our business Class 1 major incidents that result in death and important to our stakeholders, for example or injury of people or destruction of community water pollution and cyanide management ranked property or husbandry: as two of the highest priority issues in our 2016 Class 2 medium incidents involving material materiality assessment.
From a business point of disruption to production or uncontrolled release view, environmental liabilities constitute a major of contaminated effluent outside the boundary corporate risk factor, while increases in energy fence of an operation, and: efficiency and water and waste recycling lead Class 3 minor incidents involving the controlled to valuable day to day cost savings.
Protecting or uncontrolled release of effluent or pollutants the quality of water, air and biodiversity are also within the boundary fence of the operation.
essential to strong relationships with our host countries, communities and shareholders.
As indicated in the table below, 2016 was the second consecutive year we had zero class 1 This chapter explains our overall approach to incidents.
Our only class 1 incident in the last environmental risk management with specific six years occurred at our Tongon mine in Cte insights on climate risk, water risk, biodiversity, dIvoire in December 2014 and a full sign-off from waste including cyanide and air quality.
the national environmental regulator CIAPOL was received in 2016 to confirm that all damage from the OVERVIEW OF ENVIRONMENTAL incident had been rectified.
MANAGEMENT All Randgold mines have an Environmental We had just one class 2 incident in 2016, a 90% Management System EMS in place to identify drop on 2015 and the lowest level for over seven and manage environmental risks in accordance years.
The incident occurred at our Kibali mine with national legislation and IFC Performance when expired malaria chemicals were deposited at Standards.
These systems are certified against the the organic waste disposal site, leading to the death international ISO 14001 best practice standard, and of a few yellow-billed kite birds.
In response to this are externally audited regularly for compliance.
incident we have provided additional hazardous waste training to staff.
In 2016, our Malian mines Loulo and Gounkoto also passed environmental conformity audits conducted Similarly, we saw a 17% drop in class 3 incidents in every five years by the Malian government to 2016.
It should be noted that it can be a positive ensure operations are compliant with approved development to have class 3 incidents reported environmental management plans.
No major issues as we use them as an early warning system that were found.
Kibali and Tongon passed similar can help prevent the occurrence of more serious assessments in 2015. environmental incidents.
The technical details of our EMSs are based on the detailed Environmental and Social Impact Assessments ESIAs carried out during the feasibility stage of any project.
In 2016 we took the decision to shift our Massawa exploration project in Senegal to feasibility stage and in 2017 we will be conducting ESIAs both there and for a potential extension at Loulo.
FIGURE 18: ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS Number of class 1 incidents Number of class 2 incidents Number of class 3 incidents at 31 December 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Loulo 0 0 0 0 5 10 20 40 47 Gounkoto 0 0 0 0 0 0 17 9 21 Morila 0 0 0 0 0 0 8 0 1 Kibali 0 0 0 1 5 9 19 20 17 Tongon 0 0 1 0 1 1 6 16 10 GROUP 0 0 1 1 11 20 70 85 96 Class 1 major incidents that result in death or injury of people or destruction of community property or husbandry.
Class 2 medium incidents involving material disruption to production or uncontrolled release of contaminated effluent outside the boundary fence of an operation.
Class 3 minor incidents involving the controlled or uncontrolled release of effluent or pollutants within the boundary fence of the operation.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 157 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR PLANET CONTINUED These power sources helped provide a positive MANAGING CLIMATE RISK reduction in our emission intensity this year Our policies from 48.53 units of carbon dioxide equivalent Power generation is a core part of our business.
per kilotonne in 2015, to 42.17 units of carbon From the pit to the plant, every part of the gold dioxide equivalent per kilotonne in 2016 a mining process requires a steady and secure 13% improvement.
A reduction in the use of supply of energy, and Randgold also works to explosives during blasting was also a factor in this electrify the remote parts of developing countries achievement.
With the enforcement of the Paris Agreement in 2016, we are also determined The commissioning of the Ambarau hydrostation in to reduce our exposure to climate risk in line with the DRC was delayed in 2016 due to a construction a pathway that keeps global warming below two issue, but is now due to come online in the first degrees celsius.
This will mean 80% of Kibalis power will be supplied by hydropower.
A fourth Our strategy to reduce our climate risk is to both hydrostation, Azambi, is due to be commissioned in improve energy efficiency and increase our use of 2018. clean energy sources such as hydropower.
Both of these elements deliver significant cost savings to In line with increases in production, the Kibali our business and host communities.
We also aim to underground becoming fully operational and the be fully transparent about our progress, reporting to commissioning of two refrigeration plants at our international bodies such as CDP formerly Carbon Loulo mine, there was an increase in total power Disclosure Project as well as providing data in this used during 2016 from 881 000MWh in 2015 to report.
Similarly, CO emissions 2 rose by approximately 3% this year.
There was also Our energy policy strikes the balance between a decrease in power efficiency from 47.62kWh for meeting current operational needs approximately each tonne of ore milled in 2015 to 48.27kWh for 80% of the energy we use is self-generated and each tonne of ore milled in 2016. working to reduce energy and emissions in line with a two-degree pathway.
Each mine has its own We continue to monitor the feasibility of other tailored energy plan underpinned by three strategic renewable energy sources such as solar power, goals: especially in relation to our mines in Mali and our To ensure a stable, reliable secure and costpotential new project in Senegal as well as for use effective supply of energy for all operations.
Across the group we have To continuously improve energy efficiency and set locally appropriate trigger prices approximately reduce emissions intensity.
13 US cents kWh for the delivery of major solar To reduce our carbon footprint by developing projects such as a solar farm at Massawa, and and using clean energy where it is economically even though prices remain above this mark we are feasible to do so.
introducing small-scale solar projects such as those to power day shift offices across the group.
It is also important to note that our energy policy is guided by the specific challenges and opportunities We are also working to introduce and promote the present in each country of operation.
For example in use of cleaner sources of energy within our host Cte dIvoire almost all power for Tongon is bought communities.
For example, in the DRC we are from the Ivorian national grid, which is largely working with a local woman and one of only two powered by hydropower and natural gas, thus women trained as a solar engineer in the DRC, Fifi putting a focus on improving energy infrastructure.
Ondoa Falane, on the feasibility of offering solar In the northeast part of the DRC where Kibali is power for new houses built in the village of Kokiza.
located, there is no access to the national grid Fifi also installed solar panels for stalls at the preand our focus is on hydropower, while in Mali a dry Christmas Kermes festival in Durba.
climate and lack of energy infrastructure means our focus is on self-generation and improved energy Energy efficiency initiatives in 2016 included the efficiency.
creation of energy saving committees on each mine to drive improvements such as the optimisation of Where clean energy sources are not available our underground equipment and systems, preventative power needs are met by thermal generators burning maintenance on electrical equipment, and improving diesel or heavy fuel oil.
the efficiency of plant spinning reserves and processing plant power.
The committees include Our performance representatives from every department on site, and In 2016, 36% of our power was drawn from clean also assume a role of peer educators.
energy sources, up from 33% in 2015.
This was due in part to the improved stability of the Ivorian national grid, which now meets 95% of Tongons energy needs up from 90% in 2015, and the continued increase in hydropower at Kibali with the Nzoro II hydrostation now providing 61% of Kibalis energy needs.
FIGURE 23: GROUP LEVEL POWER MIX 2016 2015 17% 13% 21% 20% Thermal 62% 67% Grid Hydro RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 159 1 769 763 1 804 881 803 955 1 43.88 49.751 47.62 48.531 42.17 48.27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR PLANET CONTINUED Figure 24 on page 161 offers a visual snapshot of MANAGING WATER RISK some of this water management.
Our policies It was little surprise that the World Economic Forum The ambitious corporate targets we have in place to listed water crises as one of the top five global risks successfully manage water risks include: in terms of impact in 2016.
For us, water is essential To reduce river water abstraction in water stress for life and essential to all parts of the gold mining areas to just 15% of total used in our process business, and the management of water risk is a plants by 2020. core part of our environmental system.
To recycle 85% of process water, by 2020.
To discharge no more than 50% of total Four of our five operational mines are in areas groundwater abstracted.
vulnerable to water stress and drought, and securing 3 To improve water use efficiency to 1m per tonne access to fresh and clean water for our operations of ore milled.
and host communities in these areas is the critical To ensure that all water discharged back to the driver of our policy in this area.
We track mean environment is of the same or better quality: average rainfalls and assess evapotranspiration including zero uncontrolled discharges.
rates, to better understand the water risks for each Full compliance with water permit requirements.
For example at our Loulo-Gounkoto complex Continued engagement with other water users in Mali, 85% of annual rainfall occurs in just three within our catchment areas.
months and evaporation levels exceed rainfall for Engagement with the Malian government to nine months of the year.
While in the DRC, where restructure artisanal and small scale mining our Kibali mine operates, the countrys long rainy activities found to be impacting on the rivers season means that evaporation only exceeds rainfall around our operations.
for three months during the areas short dry season.
Therefore our water risk management policies for Kibali include a focus on flood prevention as well as protection of water access and water quality.
Across all our mines the amount of freshwater that we abstract both river and groundwater is set by government and or regional water governance permits and we carefully monitor water usage both in and around the mines using a range of tools including ultrasonic flow meters, laser water-level readers at tailings dams and mapping across a network of local boreholes.
The latter, for example, models cones of depression so we ensure ground water abstraction does not impact supply to boreholes in local villages.
For example, in 2016 we began to see impact on boreholes in Tongon village, near our Tongon mine in the Cte dIvoire, at this stage these impacts are not concerning, however, we will closely monitor water levels in these boreholes during 2017, and shall take remedial action if necessary, to ensure village water access is not impacted.
Water issues How we manage them Reductions in water table from We regularly monitor water levels across a wide network of boreholes around underground dewatering our mines to ensure we do not impact on the community water supply boreholes Regulatory compliance We comply with all the requirements of our water permits Deterioration of receiving water We engage with regulators and host country governments to bring polluters from operation into compliance with legal requirements Catchment governance We inform the regulator of our water use and management systems, and pay our water allowances Flooding and surplus water Where possible we seek to reuse as much water as possible, and store management water to allow for evaporation.
Water is tested prior to discharge to ensure compliance with national and international water quality requirements Institutional performance We participate in all meetings with regulators and engage them on issues within our catchments RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 160 4 % 36 decrease in water abstracted from rivers in host countries at risk of water stress During 2016, we worked with specialist environmental Our performance consultants Digby Wells to develop a proprietary Our group wide water abstraction for 2016 excel based water management monitoring tool totalled 47.5Ml, a notable rise on 2015 reflecting for our Loulo mine in Mali.
This includes site wide our increased production during the year.
The flow diagrams, water balance models as well as increase was also due in part to high rainfall in Cte comprehensive and constantly updated data from dIvoire that required a high volume of water being flow meters for our water use at every point on pumped from the locally-named Lake Victoria and site.
The aim is to identify areas where water can discharged back into local water sources.
be reused internally, which will reduce stress on local water sources, and to enable more efficient and effective risk analysis and strategic planning across operations.
Models for all of our sites will be developed during 2017.
Managing our water risk FIGURE 24: MANAGING OUR WATER RISK Industry leading Water use mapping technology including and flow meters at water clarifiers to abstraction points maximise water and onsite.
Ground water mapping and Water pollution cone of depression monitoring to ensure modelling to ensure our water is discharged ground water abstraction to environment at does not impact access to equal or better quality water for local communities.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 161 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR PLANET CONTINUED We were encouraged by an 18% improvement in our The quarterly audits of our tailings storage water use efficiency in 2016 which we define as the facilities TSFs showed no major anomalies in amount of water extracted per tonne of ore milled.
the management and construction of our TSFs in 3 3 This decreased from 1.85m in 2015 to 1.5m in 2016.
However, they have indicated some seepage 2016 as a result of improved pipelines and, in part, to the north of the Loulo TSF which prompted to the new water management monitoring tool.
For planting Eucalyptus trees along the edge of the example, teams in the processing plant can now TSF.
Eucalyptus trees have vast root networks that more easily see when water levels in the dam are quickly absorb water meaning they can absorb the too high, triggering them to increase pumping and seepage and are often used by industry as a natural improve water use efficiency.
Our regular testing of water quality showed no We are also pleased to report an encouraging trend incidences of non-conformity with national or towards our target to reduce river water abstraction IFC standards throughout the year, and we are in water stress areas such as Mali and Cte dIvoire.
also constructing wetlands to treat nitrates in the Total water abstracted from rivers in these countries discharge from underground water.
Our corporate target is to reduce river water abstraction to just 15% of total freshwater used by our processing plants by 2020.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 162 CASE STUDY 4 FIGURE 25: TOTAL FIGURE 26: TOTAL FIGURE 27: WATER FIGURE 28: TOTAL WATER ABSTRACTED FRESH WATER WITHDRAWAL WATER RECYCLED 3 FROM RIVERS IN AREAS OFF-TAKE ml EFFICIENCY m t % OF WATER STRESS % 60 50 2 80 70 50 40 1.5 60 40 50 30 30 1 40 20 30 20 0.5 20 10 10 10 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 To ensure the sustainability of water supply, BRINGING WATER Randgold also provides training in the maintenance of water wells so that villagers can fix SECURITY any issues that occur.
Further to this, in 2017 we will be launching a In Mali, an estimated four million people do not partnership with international water NGO WaterAid, have access to safe drinking water which, before at our Loulo-Gounkoto complex.
The aim of this the construction of our mine at Gounkoto, included partnership is to develop independent access to the residents of the village of Kunda in the west of potable water by: Mali near the border with Senegal.
Training local village water committees on the responsible management of local boreholes As there was no water infrastructure for the and water points.
villagers at Kunda, the women of the village Ensuring local water use and discharge tended to walk approximately 7km to the nearest complies with local, regional and national river to get fresh water.
Just some of the dangers regulations.
inherent in this trek included chemical run-off and contaminants from nearby gold washers and Randgold will support WaterAids first year of water-borne diseases.
It also limited the ability of operations near Loulo-Gounkoto and we hope women in the village to earn an income or spend this partnership will catalyse other water focused time caring for their children.
initiatives and funding for the region.
That is why water security has been a key priority for Gounkotos CDC in their allocation of funds to the village.
With some help from Randgold engineers Kunda now have a network of boreholes and water wells in the village from which plentiful freshwater can be drawn.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 163 53% 49% 31% 26 785 34 294 47 583 1.56 1.85 1.52 75 61 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR PLANET CONTINUED Strong partnerships with local authorities, host MANAGING BIODIVERSITY communities and NGOs are also a crucial element Our policies of our biodiversity policies.
For example our Healthy and functioning ecosystems underpin the mines lead to booming populations in local towns, effective operation of our mines and the wellbeing placing additional strain on local rivers, soils and of our host communities, so we carefully monitor ecosystems and we work with local communities and seek to minimise how gold mining processes, to empower them to monitor for issues and take such as the removal of top soil or the building of restorative action when required.
Our policy is to take careful note of flora and fauna that exists on our sites before mine construction begins and then to follow an impact mitigation hierarchy in regards to biodiversity.
Hence, as demonstrated in Figure 29 below, we avoid impacts wherever possible, minimise impacts through careful planning and assessment, restore and rehabilitate impacts whenever possible, and where complete restoration or rehabilitation is not possible put in place biodiversity offset programmes in line with IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature guidelines.
Our goal is for zero net biodiversity impacts by the time the mine gates close.
Our efforts to restore and minimise biodiversity are set out in extremely detailed biodiversity action plans BAPs at each site which, for example, require each mine site to have a nursery to grow indigenous plants and any tree removed from site must be approved by the appropriate environmental department.
Implementation of these plans is reported quarterly to the board-level environmental and social committee.
Hunting is strictly banned on our sites to allow animal populations to increase.
FIGURE 29: BIODIVERSITY MITIGATION HIERARCHY OFFSET Biodiversity losses that cannot 4 be restored with programmes to compensate and create net positive impact.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 164 MANAGE Where exposure to risk cannot be mitigated, we ensure we 3 manage them through careful administration and monitoring, including the compulsory use of personal protective equipment PPE MITIGATE Where hazards cannot be eliminated, 2 exposure to them can be mitigated through new technology or the mechanisation of processes 1 ELIMINATE Known hazards NET POSITIVE IMPACT NET POSITIVE IMPACT CASE STUDY 4 FIGURE 30: RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT OF BIODIVERSITY AT EVERY PHASE OF A MINES LIFECYCLE Project stage Objectives Actions Exploration Understand local biodiversity and Initial biodiversity assessment, provide guidance for site planning including desk and field research if project moves to operational and input from experts.
New projects and expansion Establish biodiversity baseline and Environmental and Social Impact clearly define biodiversity risks.
Satellite images of site prior to construction.
Operational Set out actions to avoid and Development and implementation mitigate damage to biodiversity of site specific Biodiversity action and restoration and rehabilitation plans BAPS.
Closure Ensure site is restored and Replace flora and fauna based rehabilitated with no net loss of on satellite images taken prior to biodiversity.
Fish and water are monitored both upstream and MONITORING WATER downstream from our operations.
Upstream tests provide the reference levels for local water health, QUALITY while downstream tests allow us to assess and manage our impacts on local waterways.
For The rivers and streams around our mines are example, testing shows that near our Tongon mine critical sources of water for our host communities.
discharge from the pit has led to an increase in Therefore ensuring the water we discharge back arsenic levels in fish populations downstream to the environment is the same or better quality as from the mine.
However, this is largely reversible the water we abstract is a vital part of our work.
and we are constructing settling ponds to trap sediments from the pit discharge.
We will also As well as undertaking standard water quality construct an artificial wetland to trap any dissolved monitoring techniques, we have, for several years arsenic before leaving the mine boundary.
worked with environmental specialists at Digby Wells to assess the aquatic health of the rivers Monitoring at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex has and streams around our operations.
Standard revealed the stress artisanal mining activities techniques fail to record the dynamic fluctuations are placing on local water sources, and we of water chemistry within river systems nor do have informed local, regional and national they assess the health of aquatic life such as fish, environmental authorities of the problems and which can be an insightful way to understand the continue to monitor the issue.
levels of contaminants in a river system.
As well as providing an assessment of water quality, testing of aquatic life provides an indication of the biodiversity at each site, and at Kibali our sampling discovered several species of previously unknown fish.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 165 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR PLANET CONTINUED Our policies Our performance Each one of our mines has its own site-specific All our operational mines have Biodiversity Action waste management plans that detail how organic, Plans BAPs in place with implementation on track.
inorganic and hazardous wastes should be handled, As shown in Figure 31 below, this has included the stored, separated, recycled or disposed to ensure rehabilitation of approximately 260 hectares of land everything is done in a safe and environmentally in 2016, thereby reducing our overall footprint by friendly manner.
decreasing total land disturbed by our mines by over 1% this year.
Total disturbed land was reduced by Cyanide and hazardous waste 45 hectares, the equivalent of rehabilitating an area We take special care to handle the small amount greater than 60 football pitches.
Rehabilitation rates of hazardous waste we produce such as acids, tend to be determined by the age of the mine.
For chemical reagents, hydrocarbon and cyanide.
For example, Kibali is still relatively young and in an the second consecutive year, cyanide management expansion and disturbance phase while Morila is in particular was highlighted as one of our highest nearing closure and therefore has a much greater priority issues in the 2016 materiality assessment.
focus on restoration and rehabilitation.
Our production, transportation, storage and use We continue to monitor animals onsite and now of cyanide is aligned with national regulations have cameras within our Kibali permit area to help and international industry best practice and we record the different species.
We have found that require all our cyanide suppliers to be certified to animal populations on site are generally increasing the international cyanide code.
We also provide with new species identified on the Kibali site.
When regular training and supervision especially for those animals come too close to our operations they are transporting cyanide and burning cyanide-related caught and relocated to a safer part of the permit waste.
and our environmental teams have been trained in the catching and handling of different species.
For We track any environmental incidents relating to example at our Kibali mine we relocated a large cyanide and conduct annual cyanide code audits, number of snakes during 2016. for example testing for levels of cyanide in water facilities Our rehabilitation efforts included planting more than 17 000 trees across all sites in 2016.
We also generate a relatively small amount of other Perhaps the most significant progress on hazardous waste each year such as batteries, biodiversity in 2016 was the extension of our offset fluorescent lights, certain oils, solvents, electronic programmes to build on our successful work with waste and laboratory assay wastes.
As with the Garamba National Park in the DRC.
As set out in process materials, the types of hazardous wastes the case study box on page 167, we now have plans vary among our sites.
However, all are recycled or for biodiversity offset programmes in each host disposed of according to the appropriate regulation country and worked with sustainability consultants in the countries in which we operate.
in 2016 to quantify the value our biodiversity offset programmes in 2017.
No waste deemed hazardous under the Basel Convention is transported, exported, imported, None of our operational mines are located within the treated or shipped internationally by Randgold.
boundaries of any natural World Heritage Sites nor do our mines affect the habitats of any endangered We seek to minimise the amount of hazardous species.
Wherever possible we replace hazardous chemicals with less hazardous products, WASTE MANAGEMENT and we recycle wherever possible.
For example The process of extracting ore from the ground we reduce our hydrocarbon waste by working with generates large quantities of hazardous and reputable local companies, such as Lubetech in non-hazardous waste.
Ensuring it is responsibly Cte dIvoire, to remove waste oils from site for dealt with is crucial to ensuring environmental and recycling.
FIGURE 31: TOTAL LAND REHABILITATED AND DISTURBED 2016 2015 2014 Total hectares rehabilitated 260 20 16 Total hectares disturbed 222 53 682 Total disturbed areas on our mines 4 345 4 383 4 350 RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 166 CASE STUDY 4 During 2016 we also began a partnership with the PROTECTING Mali Elephant Project in the Gourma region of Mali to bolster our biodiversity offset efforts.
Home ENDANGERED ANIMALS to an endangered population of desert elephant only found in Namibia and Mali, the Gourma also IN THE DRC AND MALI has limited employment opportunities for young people and the area has been a recruiting ground During 2016 we continued our partnership with for extremist factions.
The Mali Elephant Project the Garamba National Park in the DRC.
Garamba helps to protect Malis elephants, by working with is one of Africas oldest national parks and a local communities to convey the importance and UNESCO World Heritage Site, and was once home long term financial value of this unique elephant to the now extinct Northern White Rhino.
Our population for local communities.
partnership with the park began in 2014.
Since then we have provided more than $750 000 in The project also supports funding for 670 support for a range of projects in the Garamba: community eco-guardians to detect poaching, In 2014 we provided $240 000 for a project to boosting protection for the elephants and provides monitor and protect elephants from poaching alternative employment for young people.
via tracking collars and aerial flights.
In 2015 we provided $250 000 to fund a In 2017, we hope to finalise similar partnerships team to monitor and protect the critically with the Comoe National Park in Cte dIvoire and endangered Kordofan giraffe.
Niokolo Koba National Park in Senegal, and with In 2016 our goal was to help reintroduce conservation organisations such as Panthera.
Rhino back into the Garamba.
However, security concerns arising from militia activity has delayed the project.
Instead much of our support for the Garamba has been channelled to provide tracking collars for a further 50 elephants and the improvement of roads and access to the park boosting options for ecotourism and emergency response rates.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 167 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR PLANET CONTINUED Non-hazardous waste Our performance By volume most of our waste is from waste rock As seen in Figure 32 below, the volume of general and tailings from operations.
In line with IFC waste we produced decreased from over 11 000t in Performance Standards, the dumping of waste rock 2015, to 9 569t during 2016.
We dispose of each is carefully managed by geotechnical engineers to material appropriately and in 2016 sent more than ensure the correct angle of slopes for stability and 10 000t of waste for recycling.
the correct drainage to recover any leachates.
As part of site rehabilitation waste rock dumps are then The disposal of waste can also provide opportunities covered with topsoil and planted with native plants, for local economic development and wherever which also helps stabilise the infrastructure and possible we work with local communities to create thereby minimises the chance of leach generation.
sustainable and profitable waste management and The way we design and construct our waste rock collection companies.
For example, in 2016 we dumps is informed by the geochemical composition signed a contract with the Chief of the Surur village of the waste rocks, and we conduct geochemical near Kibali to recycle all Kibalis scrap steel.
We assessments of waste rock prior to the design stage.
also sell used grease, air filters, steel drums and For example, when planning the waste rock dump conveyor belts to local artisans for reuse.
for our Gounkoto mine, the dump was designed to reduce dumping near the river and to maximise dumping in the pit.
We have also been able to reduce the total volume of waste rock generated by the Gounkoto super pit by 46% by constructing the waste rock dump on top of the backfilled pit and through inpit dumping, thereby mitigating the most significant negative impacts of the super pit.
All our tailings are sent to engineered TSFs, which are designed to safely hold the tailings even in severe weather.
We have clear policies to ensure the construction operation, maintenance, monitoring and closure of our TSFs meets international industry best practice.
Our staff conduct daily inspections of TSFs, and our TSF management is audited on a quarterly basis by independent auditors Epoch Resources.
Other non-hazardous wastes produced by our mines include general waste such as scrap metal, used tyres and organic waste.
Our waste policy emphasises the recycling and reuse of general waste wherever possible.
In 2016 we introduced a new target to reduce the volume of general waste we produce and to send to landfill 50% by 2020.
We shall report on this target in next years sustainability report.
FIGURE 32: TONNES OF WASTE MANAGED Tonnes 2016 2015 2014 Tailings 16 407 312 18 497 138 17 174 516 Waste rock 82 620 763 64 382 913 86 209 131 Hazardous 6 589 7 294 6 313 9 569 General 11 379 5 065 Waste recycled 10 358 12 400 3 739 Waste to landfill 3 566 2 439 2 047 RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 168 CASE STUDY 4 GATHERING DUST ON THE LOULO-GOUNKOTO HAUL ROAD To minimise the dust created by vehicles on the critical haul road on the Loulo-Gounkoto complex we regularly wet the roads, with highest priority given to the heavy use haulage roads and busy roads in the community.
To ensure a prompt response to dust problems, the road wetting tracks are kept and managed by the local community.
We have also been trialling the use of dust suppressants like molasses and bitumen.
These efforts are complemented with dust reduction activities including planting of vegetation in exposed areas and by running speed awareness courses.
During 2016 we began to formalise the process of AIR QUALITY measuring our NO and SO emissions across the Most of our operations take place in dry dusty parts x x group.
At the time of writing this showed that NO of the world and we work hard to safeguard the x emissions at our Loulo-Gounkoto complex were quality of the air around our operations.
Excess dust 22.6mg m with 0.12 mg m SO.
At Tongon we from our operations could potentially cause issues x measured 0.12mg m NO and trace SO emissions.
such as breathing difficulties or eye irritation for x x These results will form part of a baseline measure our host communities and if not carefully managed and we plan to report on levels of NO and SO could damage our social license to operate.
x x emitted for all our mines in next years sustainability report.
We follow IFC guidelines to monitor and manage air quality on and near our sites.
This means we have Plans and priorities for 2017 monitoring stations that measure airborne dust levels Several priorities next year will be based around our both on site and throughout our local communities.
Work to produce a These monitoring stations are checked weekly to more detailed carbon footprint that includes scope 3 assess airborne particulate counts.
In accordance emissions will be published and provide a baseline with IFC guidelines we aim to ensure airborne 2 on which we can work with suppliers to help drive particulate levels are less than 500mg m day.
We will also work to improve the amount of power that comes from clean energy During 2016, we also experienced problems with sources by bringing two new hydropower stations dust coming from the TSF at Morila, and we have online in the DRC, Ambarau and Azambi.
worked extensively with the community to apply mulch to the TSF to suppress the dust and are also Our water recycling rate will be a focus, following working with our Malian contractor EGTF to develop disappointing results this year, as will continuing viable long-term solutions.
Our biggest source of the positive trends of drawing less freshwater from dust is that kicked up by vehicles travelling on or rivers in areas of water stress and to discharge less around our mines and we spend about $1 million abstracted groundwater.
each year in efforts to combat it see case study above.
Our exciting biodiversity offset plans will continue in 2017 as we hope to finalise potential partnerships Our other impact on air quality is through the with the Comoe National Park in Cte dIvoire and generation of nitrogen oxides NO NO and x 2 Niokolo Koba National Park in Senegal.
We will sulphur oxides SO SO, which emanate from the x 2 also work with scientists and experts to develop a thermal power generators powering our sites.
We framework to quantify the extractive industry offset strive to keep these below IFC guidelines for small initiatives.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 169 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOR OUR PLANET CONTINUED FIGURE 33: TOOLS FOR MAINTAINING AIR QUALITY Dust meters Smoke stack Road restrictions wetting NO SO x x MAINTAINING AIR QUALITY Vegetation and planting Education for exposed areas Speed Molasses and restrictions bitumen applied roads RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 170 APPENDIX 1: MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PURPOSE AND METHODOLOGY Randgolds materiality assessment process see Methodology earlier section in this report on governance of For the 2016 report, we undertook a formal sustainability serves three distinct purposes.
materiality analysis with internal and external It helps us to prioritise sustainability reporting stakeholders.
The process included: topics, informs our risk management and strategic Identification phase Our sustainability team, planning and it helps us engage with stakeholders to working with the support of external consultants, understand their concerns and requirements.
drafted a long list of 42 potential sustainability issues that could be deemed material to our We use the Global Reporting Initiatives GRI business both inside and outside the boundaries definition of materiality in the context of a of our mines.
These issues were selected from sustainability report which is information that those listed in the GRI G4 Metals and mining Reflects the organisations significant economic, supplement, based on our own experience and environmental, and social impacts or substantively a review of extractives sustainability issues in influence the assessments and decisions of the media over the last year.
external stakeholders were asked to score the potential impact to Randgolds business of each Our materiality assessment was conducted in line of these issues.
with guidance set out by the GRI G4 guidelines and Prioritisation phase The long list survey helped shape this report to be In Accordance Core was sent to internal and external stakeholders with the GRI G4 standard.
including representatives of each of our eight stakeholder groups with the exception of the media, and we received 138 responses.
For investors, we approached our 10 largest shareholders.
Internal stakeholders included heads of relevant departments and the members of the executive management team.
Validation phase A contextual analysis and aggregation of findings was produced and agreed internally by Randgold senior management to ensure it provided balanced coverage of the companys most material issues wherever they occur in the value chain.
Identifying our priority issues In order to draw a threshold for our reporting, we set boundaries to identify our highest priority and medium priority issues.
We define highest priority issues as being the top three issues of internal and external stakeholders and the issues that appear in both internal and external stakeholders top 10 most important issues.
Medium priority issues are defined as those appearing in the top third of either internal or external stakeholder lists.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 171 RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 172 172
