Corporate responsibility report Our employees Our business success is dependent upon delivering a highly professional and personal service to our clients and we believe this can only be achieved by having engaged and motivated employees with a diverse range of backgrounds, skills and experiences.
Our employee strategy, policies and investment plans are all designed to achieve these goals.
Members of staff have access to management and leadership courses, CPD programmes to achieve continuous learning and agreed career development programmes to enable progression within the firm.
Charities and communities The Rathbone Foundation has continued to support small localcharities where its donations can make a real difference.
During the year, each office across the firm created a foundation in order to be able to donate and support local charities.
The overall Social and environmental committee charitable objective of the firm is to support small, locally-based chairmans annual statement charities that help to improve the lives of young people.
Further information on our various initiatives can be found below.
Rathbones corporate responsibility strategy aims to ensure that social, environmental and ethical considerations are Our support of young people has continued in 2016 through our taken into account throughout the business.
The social and partnerships with English Lacrosse and Lacrosse Scotland and environmental committee SEC, which I chair, is responsible for initiatives such as our financial awareness programme.
We were ensuring that Rathbones effectively manages its sustainability also proud to continue our sponsorship of the University of issues.
It is formed by members of staff from key functions such Liverpools innovative ARION engineering team who broke as facilities, HR, marketing, IT and investment management.
It the mens and womens British land speed record for a meets three times a year and reports directly to the group human-powered vehicle in 2016. executive committee.
Environmental reporting With regard to environmental, social and governance ESG matters as they affect our business, the board believes that the During the 2015 16 reporting period, our overall carbon footprint SEC has identified and assessed the significant risks to the decreased by 9% from last year and 3% over the last three years company.
The SEC focuses not only on potential risks, but also despite continuous growth in the business.
Our carbon footprint on opportunities for the company to play its part as a good and carbon intensity measures have fallen during this time employer and as a contributor to the communities and mainly due to efficient use of electricity across our offices and a environment in which we work and our clients live.
This report reduction in emissions from business travel.
Total electricity provides an overview of our activities more information can be consumption reduced by 14% since last year, primarily due to found on our website.
improvements in data quality and a reduction in the UK electricity conversion factor.
Business travel emission reduced by Responsible investing 6% following a significant reduction in flights emissions.
You can find further details of our carbon footprint further in the report.
The concept of stewardship and responsible investment means focusing on the client and ensuring an active approach to the Finally, we remain a constituent company of the FTSE4Good ownership of securities.
Implementing effective stewardship is Index series and a signatory to the UNbacked Principles for integral to our investment process as a means of protecting and Responsible Investment.
enhancing value for clients, often through encouraging high standards of corporate governance.
During 2016, we reviewed and updated our policies in this area and are pleased to report Philip Howell on our progress below.
Chief Executive and Chairman of the SEC 22 February 2017 42 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Through Rathbone Greenbank Investments and Rathbone Our strategy Unit Trust Managements Ethical Bond Fund, the company is Rathbones corporate responsibility strategy can be summarised able to provide investment services tailored to clients interests as follows.
in the area of socially responsible or sustainable investment.
Where appropriate, the company is also able to participate in Investing for clients new share issues offered by companies that provide Maintain and develop the relationships we have with our environmentally or socially beneficial products or services.
clients, treat them fairly and continue to meet their needs.
As at 31 December 2016, Rathbone Greenbank Investments had Consider corporate responsibility and governance issues in 0.86 billion of funds under management, equivalent to 3.0% of the companies in which we invest on behalf of our clients.
Rathbone Investment Management funds assets under Developing our employees management and the Rathbone Ethical Bond Fund had 579 million of funds under management.
Motivate and reward appropriately, encouraging their development.
Affiliations Working with communities Rathbone Brothers Plc has been both a signatory and respondent to the CDP Carbon Disclosure Project since 2006.
Engage in the communities in which we operate.
We are also a signatory to the CDP sister programmes on Being aware of our environment Water Disclosure and Forests.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments Manage our environmental impact and reduce our became a CDP Investor Member in 2015.
The group has carbon footprint by the efficient use of resources.
been a signatory to the UN-backed Principles for Responsible Investment PRI since September 2009 and we continue to Investing for clients play an active role in the PRI Collaboration Platform formerly the Clearinghouse a global platform for collaborative Responsible investment engagement initiatives, which aims to encourage sustainable Rathbones specialises in discretionary private client investment long term value.
Out of over 1,600 members of this leading management.
We manage assets for clients based on their goals.
initiative, Rathbones was named as one of the top 20 most Central processes provide guidance on equity analysis and active and influential members of the Clearinghouse in 2015 and strategic asset allocation advice, which are shared by the group, 2016, a significant achievement given our size relative to other but it is central to our business model that investment managers PRI members.
In addition, Rathbone Greenbank Investments is a retain their independence to buy and sell securities for clients.
long-standing member of influential responsible investor groups Therefore, a top-down responsible investment policy is not such as the UK Sustainable Investment and Finance Association considered workable or appropriate for us at this time.
UKSIF and the Ecumenical Council for Corporate Nonetheless, we are long term investors and ESG factors form a Responsibility.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments is also a key part of our equity analysis.
The issue of governance as a risk leading member of the Institutional Investors Group on factor is covered by the work of our stewardship committee Climate Change IIGCC.
formerly the group corporate governance committee recognising that governance issues can be material in the companies in which we invest on behalf of our clients.
As well as conducting our own in-house analysis, we subscribe to specialist providers of ESG research as part of our research budget.
Social, environmental and ethical considerations are also taken into account for specific mandates throughout the group, particularly those managed by our specialist ethical investment unit, Rathbone Greenbank Investments, and a number managed by our charities team.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 43 Corporate responsibility report continued Investing for clients continued Engagement Voting Engagement with companies on ESG matters is largely The cornerstone of all responsible investment is an active and undertaken by Rathbone Greenbank Investments ethical considered approach to proxy voting.
Since 2010, the groups research team and the stewardship director on behalf of the voting activity has been coordinated by a dedicated committee, stewardship committee.
Engagement may occur as a result of established in line with our obligations under the PRI, and pays fundamental analysis of companies ESG reporting or through heed to the Financial Reporting Council FRC UK Stewardship collaborative efforts initiated by interest groups such as CDP, Code.
Composed of investment managers and other UKSIF or the PRI Collaboration Platform.
It covers a wide range representatives from across the business, and supported by of themes spanning the whole of the environmental, social and apermanent stewardship director, the committee maintains governance spectrum.
general group policy on corporate governance and oversees its Our clients played an important role in supporting shareholder consideration in proxy voting in conjunction with advice from resolutions at the AGMs of two major European oil and gas an external corporate governance consultant, Institutional companies in the past year, seeking the additional reporting Shareholder Services ISS.
Advice and research received by ofclimate change information.
The resolutions themselves the committee supplements the analysis carried out internally received board support and were adopted with large majorities as part of the investment process.
The committee issues voting at the respective AGMs.
recommendations based on best practice, which establishes a baseline for consideration by the major holders of the CDP disclosure and performance score companies in question.
Our investment managers retain the The CDP has recently revised and updated its methodology.
ability to vote independently of this advice if appropriate.
Whereas in previous years we reported an excellent disclosure Rathbone Investment Management exercises the voting rights score and a lower ranking for operational management, the new attached to approximately 90% of the listed UK equity it holds methodology combines both aspects.
We received a C ranking on behalf of its clients.
Voting is also undertaken on any on the CDP methodology for 2016, in line with our sector peers.
company if requested by an underlying shareholder.
Rathbone Unit Trust Management, as an institutional investor, meets its obligations as a signatory to the Stewardship Code and was classified as a Tier 2 signatory by the FRC in 2016.
In addition to expanding the scope of proxy voting in 2015 and now employing ISS to vote actively on all of its holdings, Rathbone Unit Trust Management has recently clarified its policy on stewardship and company engagement in line with the demand of regulators.
Votes are entered in line with UK corporate governance best practice, overseen by the stewardship director and fund investment managers.
During 2016, the committee oversaw active proxy voting on 5,326 resolutions at 446 company meetings.
Voting on these resolutions includes consideration ofsuch issues as executive remuneration, auditor independence, appointment of directors and non-financial reporting.
We are committed to transparency in this area and regularly report on our activities via our website.
A more detailed assessment of our votes against management can be found in our review of stewardship and proxy voting.
44 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Continuing professional development CPD Employees Our client-facing employees continue to meet and mostly Our approach exceed the required CPD targets set by our regulators.
We are firmly committed to evolving our people policies and Investment managers have the opportunity to further improve practices and having continued high levels of employee their technical and management skills to ensure that the engagement in line with our corporate values.
Our goal continues highest levels of client service are maintained.
to be the delivery of the highest possible quality of service to our Talent development clients through talented and professional employees.
Rathbones is keen to develop a pipeline of high-calibre talent to Employee statistics ensure appropriate skills and succession planning for the future.
Our second apprenticeship programme is well underway with % of female employees: 49.2% six participants and, in light of the success of this programme, % of employees working part-time: 10.7% a further group will be recruited in 2017.
Our continued % resignation rate: 4.6% commitment to developing younger talent means that the existing graduate development programme will be completed Learning in early 2017 and a new programme started.
The new programme We continue to support the development of all our employees will see the trainees participate in a variety of placements around and have maintained our average annual investment per person the firm to gain a broad range of experience.
at a significant level of 634 and an average of two days.
These figures are a conservative estimate because there is much more Career development and performance management employee development that has no direct cost and is conducted We have further developed our career frameworks to help at thedesk.
employees see their future pathway for progression within the organisation.
There is further work to do in this area and there is Our aim when delivering high-quality programmes is to a commitment to help employees and managers with the skills ensure that employees have the best opportunity to put required for career management.
We do this by engaging with line managers and other stakeholders in the business to ensure The performance management process is reviewed on an that the opportunity and support is in place for employees to ongoing basis and during 2016, we tailored our approach use new skills.
We regularly implement new initiatives across further to prompt more meaningful performance discussions, the group to ensure that all employees have access to in particular to include self review and a focus on career development for their current and possible future roles.
In 2017, the emphasis will be on more regular and informal reviews with better quality and timely feedback.
Leadership and management development We have developed a comprehensive suite of management and Diversity and inclusion leadership courses.
This is designed to enable the business to Rathbones is an equal opportunities employer and it is our identify high-potential employees and progress them through key policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees are treated stages of learning from being highly effective team members to fairly and on merit regardless of their race, gender, marital status, ultimately growing into senior leadership roles.
The leadership age, disability, religious belief or sexual orientation.
programme continued successfully throughout the year and the Rathbones has two female non-executive directors out programme again involved senior managers focusing on how to of five and has thus achieved our commitment to meet Lord lead their teams to achieve corporate goals.
The programme Davies target of 25% female board representation.
We are culminates in a presentation about leadership changes and the working towards achieving the adjusted target of 33% value of the learning.
This format will continue to cascade through of female board representation for FTSE 350 companies by the firm during 2017 to build leadership and management skills 2020 and are developing a policy and targets aligned to the across the group.
recommendations published in the Hampton Alexander We have aligned some of our management development to formal review in November 2016. qualifications.
A number of managers have successfully achieved a Historically, women are less well represented in the investment level five qualification awarded by the Chartered Management management industry and addressing this imbalance is a key Institute, which included a module on managing operational risk priority.
We are working hard to bring in more women in graduate tailored to the specific issues in Rathbones.
We will continue to trainee positions our graduate and apprenticeship programmes support this type of development where the formal recognition currently comprise broadly equal numbers of men and women of learning is appropriate.
and by encouraging more applications from women to our work experience and financial career programmes.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 45 Corporate responsibility report continued Employees continued Employee relations We continue to target the progression and development of Engagement with our employees is crucial to the continuing existing female employees with opportunities for leadership and success of the group.
We communicate regularly and openly management programmes.
During 2016, we engaged with some with our employees on matters affecting them and on the issues of our recently returned maternity leavers to discuss their that have an impact on the performance of the group, actively experiences, their views of our maternity provisions and their seeking their feedback on these matters.
We aim to take these views into account we carried out an employee engagement survey, which resulted when reviewing our maternity policies.
in an overall engagement score of 88%.
We have shared the Performance and reward results with our employees and in 2016 we held focus groups with employees from all areas of the business.
We are building We offer a comprehensive remuneration package, which is upon the results of these focus groups to further enhance our regularly reviewed to ensure that our employees are fairly employee proposition.
This is supported by challenging objective setting and appraisal processes to align reward to corporate goals and We recognise the importance of an appropriate work life balance, motivate and encourage high performance.
both to the health and welfare of employees and to the business.
Employees are not expected to work long hours on a consistent or All employees have the opportunity to participate in a pension ongoing basis and any overtime is voluntary.
Holiday entitlement arrangement and are eligible to receive at least a 3% contribution begins at 25 days per annum for all employees, increasing to 30 from the company to a group personal pension arrangement, days after five years service, with the opportunity to buy up to five rising to 10% with additional employee contributions.
In 2016, additional days of flexible leave each year.
we started a consultation with members of the company defined benefit pension schemes.
This consultation has resulted in a decision to close the schemes and we will provide members with accessto pension benefits comparable to those provided to all our otheremployees.
We provide a wide range of core benefits such as private medical cover, income protection insurance and life assurance.
All employees are eligible for an annual medical examination funded by the company.
Employees are encouraged to identify with and benefit from thefinancial performance of the group through our share-matching incentive plan SIP, free shares and Save As You Earn SAYE schemes.
We have a continued focus on employee wellbeing.
Employees have access to an Employee Assistance Programme offering confidential advice and support to employees and their families.
Our people can also take advantage of the vast range of voluntary benefits available such as the cycle to work scheme, childcare vouchers, flexible holidays, voluntary leave and discounts on products and services through our Reward Board benefits platform.
46 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Investing in brighter futures Communities The Rathbones Financial Awareness Programme involves Donations and fundraising investment managers delivering presentations to 1625 year olds During the year, the group made total charitable donations within our offices and at schools around the UK.
The of 353,000, representing 0.7% of group pre-tax profits programme aims to equip those attending with the necessary 2015: 353,000, representing 0.6% of group pre-tax profits.
information to take ownership of their finances at a young age.
It also included the matching of employee donations made In 2016, the programme was delivered to over 2,000 young through the tax efficient Give As You Earn GAYE payroll people.
A booklet was created to provide financial education for giving scheme.
In 2016, our employees made payments totalling those who may not be able to attend one of ourcourses.
196,000 2015: 182,000 through this scheme, which is We were also lead sponsors of various other youth development administered by the Charities Aid Foundation.
The company programmes such as the Chalke Valley History Festival for matched staff donations of up to 200 per month made through Schools, the dot-art art competition, the Bang Goes the Borders GAYE and in 2016 donated 164,000 2015: 152,000 to causes science festival and the University of Liverpool students chosen by employees through this method.
attempt to break the human-powered land speed record in During 2016, the Rathbone Brothers foundations across the Nevada.
Rathbones further acknowledges the importance of country considered many requests for assistance and met a sport in the lives of young people to teach key life skills and, number of charities.
Significant donations were made to the alongside our continued partnerships with English Lacrosse and following organisations: Lacrosse Scotland, we look forward to welcoming the best in the world at the FIL Rathbones Womens Lacrosse World Cup in Beatson Cancer Charity is a charity that provides the best summer2017.
Our members of staff have volunteered at the centre as well as holding charitable events.
Further information on all of our initiatives for young The Teapot Trust provides professional art psychotherapy people canbe found at rathbones.
and support for children with life-limiting chronic illnesses, particularly those suffering complex rheumatological Local communities conditions such as juvenile arthritis and lupus.
We are committed to supporting the communities in which we ClearVision is a lending library that adds Braille to childrens are based.
Regional offices are encouraged to get involved in books, before loaning them to visually impaired children.
their local communities and support charities and initiatives that Thecharitys library is well established and serves over 1,000 they feel are important to the area.
families, schools, vision support services and public libraries, making over 10,000 loans in the last year alone.
Andover Child Contact Centre enables children of separated families to spend time with their parent or parents in a neutral, supervised and child-friendly environment.
The Anthony Walker Foundation aims to prevent youth involvement in hate crimes, promote racial harmony, encourage the celebration of diversity and personal integrity and realise the potential of all young people through education, sport and the arts.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 47 Corporate responsibility report continued Environmental impact Our reporting period covers the 12 months to 30 September 2016 2015 16 and our baseline year is 2012 13.
Carbon footprint As a responsible investor, Rathbones leads by example in our approach to environmental matters.
We strive to understand the environmental impacts of our business activities and, where possible, act to reduce them.
This is the ninth annual report on our carbon footprint and we are pleased to report a 9% reduction in our total emissions to 2,814 tCO e, down from 3,081 tCO e 2 2 in2014 15.
This reduction has been primarily driven by a 15% reduction in buildings emissions and a 6% reduction in business travel emissions, which together account for 85% of our total footprint.
The business has also grown this year with increases in headcount, office space, operating income and funds under management.
This growth, combined with the reduction in total emissions, has significantly reduced the carbon intensity of our business.
A summary of our carbon footprint and intensity is detailedbelow: Emissions tCO e since baseline year 2 3 081 2 882 2 907 2 814 Refrigerant Waste Transmission and distribution Data centre Natural gas Paper Business travel Purchased electricity Change vs.
Carbon intensity tCO e 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2014 15 2 Staff FTE 3.5 3.4 3.2 2.7 16% 2 Net internal area of offices m 0.20 0.20 0.21 0.18 14% Operating income m 16.34 13.39 13.39 11.54 14% Funds under management bn 131 107 106 85 20% 2 Carbon intensity is total all Scopes tCO e per: FTE: m : m of operating income: bn of funds under management 2 48 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Objectives Compliance with regulations Rathbones complies with the regulations for reporting Our 2015 16 objectives greenhouse gas emissions.
To ensure that energy efficiency measures are adopted year is the calendar year, our reporting period for greenhouse where possible during the fit out of the new gas emissions is 1 October to 30 September.
operational control approach to defining our organisational Achieved.
The fit out of the new London headquarters boundary, our 2015 16 greenhouse gas emissions from business commenced in September 2016 and the process completed activities amounted to: on 13 February 2017.
357 tCO e resulting from the combustion of fuel and the 2 2.
To ensure that furniture, fittings and equipment at the operation of any facilities classified as Scope 1 in this report Curzon Street office are recycled or reused wherever possible.
1,009 tCO e from the purchase of electricity by the company In progress.
As part of the move to the new London office 2 for its own use classified as Scope 2 in this report.
we will closely monitor this to ensure maximum reuse and recycling.
During 2015 16 we aquired a small office in Falmouth, which increased our reporting boundary.
It has not been practical to 3.
To minimise travel that is not booked through our agents or gather data on energy use at our Lymington office and we have which is not in accordance with the group travel policy used typical energy consumption benchmarks to calculate the introduced in 2015. energy use at this site based on floor area.
We continue to monitor group travel to ensure it is booked through our agents and is in accordance with our The methodology used is in accordance with the requirements policy.
We are pleased to report a 6% reduction in business of the following standard: the World Resources Institute travel emissions this year.
Greenhouse Gas Protocol revised version this includes the new best practice Scope 2 guidance using the market-based 4.
To encourage our landlords to source energy from method: Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including renewable sources.
mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance Partially achieved.
For sites where we have a direct contract Defra, October 2013 : and ISO 14064 part 1. with the supplier, our tariffs are less emissions intensive than the national average and in December 2016 we switched to a 100% renewable tariff at our Winchester site.
We will continue to encourage our landlords to switch to renewable sources.
Looking ahead to 2016 17 th Next year will be the 10 year in which we report on our carbon footprint and we will be taking an in-depth look at our business to understand how we can align our environmental and sustainability objectives with the broader commercial objectivesof our business.
Over the course of the next year, we will continue to monitor and, wherever possible, reduce our environmental impacts.
We will also develop a strategic approach to addressing these impacts over the longer term, to be disclosed in the 2016 17 report.
Many of our core IT facilities at our London and Liverpool offices have been outsourced to data centres.
As per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, emissions from the data centres are reported as Scope 3.
However, where we state figures for overall buildings electricity use we have included the data centres, as we felt this is the more transparent approach 50 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Carbon Smart has concluded the points listed below.
Carbon Smart opinion statement Carbon Smarts statement provides Rathbones and its Relevance stakeholders with a third party assessment of the quality and We have ensured the GHG inventory appropriately reflects the reliability of Rathbones carbon footprint data for the reporting GHG emissions of the company and serves the decision-making period 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016.
It does not needs of users, both internal and external to the company.
represent an independent third party assurance of Rathbones Completeness management approach to sustainability.
Rathbones continues to use the operational control approach to Carbon Smart has been commissioned by Rathbones for the defining its organisational boundaries.
Rathbones calculates total ninth consecutive year to calculate Rathbones carbon footprint direct Scope 1, 2 and major Scope 3 emissions.
Reported for all offices for its 2016 corporate responsibility report.
Through environmental data covers all employees and all entities that this engagement, Carbon Smart has assured Rathbones that the meet the criteria of being subject to control or significant reported carbon footprint is representative of the business and influence of the reporting organisation.
that the data presented is credible and compliant with appropriate standards and industry practices.
Data has been Consistency collected and calculated following the ISO 14064 part 1 To ensure comparability, we have used the same calculation standard and verified against the WRI GHG Protocol principles methodologies and assumptions as for the previous year.
of completeness, consistency and accuracy.
Transparency Carbon Smarts work has included interviews with key Where relevant, we have included appropriate references to the Rathbones personnel, a review of internal and external accounting and calculation methodologies, assumptions and documentation, interrogation of source data and data collection re-calculations performed.
systems including comparison with the previous years data.
Accuracy To our knowledge, data is considered accurate within the limits of the quality and completeness of the data provided.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 51 Governance 52 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016
