28 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic overview Our betterbusiness strategy bettersociety What we said Continue to improve our health and safety performance Bettersociety is about how we meet at all our sites our responsibilities in the workplace Advance our gender diversity initiative, Project DARE and in our communities, as well as in Develop, Attract, Retain, Engage talented women relation to our products.
Promote health and hygiene messages and continue to invest to deliver social impact Grow the proportion of revenue from more sustainable Read more in our Sustainability Report products .
com Further increase transparency about the ingredients in our products What we did Continued to reduce our lost working day accident rate and further restructured our health and safety compliance programmes Focused on gender balance, including Project DARE, improved performance reviews and increased support to international transferees and their partners Relaunched our Human Rights and Responsible Business policy and continued to work with stakeholders to address human rights issues Strategic approach Reached 365 million people through our health and hygiene messages and invested 8 million in social impact programmes Workplace Products We attract great people, give them We advance health, consumer Increased proportion of Net Revenue from more global experiences in a unique safety and environmental sustainable products to 13.2% culture, and inspire them with protection by optimising our Started reviewing our Restricted Substances List RSL, stretching performance-based products and aim to increase the increased ingredient transparency and accelerated rewards.
We look after our people proportion of our revenue that the phasing out of microbeads and contractors through high comes from more sustainable health and safety and human products.
rights standards in addition to ourCode of Business Conduct.
What we will do Weexpect suppliers to take similarcare.
Launch global standards for health and safety, to set our minimum expectations for the highest risk areas Healthier lives across all our sites How we improve Health and Focus on diversity, talent, succession and performance Hygiene behaviour through our products, brand educational Develop our networks, to scale our health and hygiene programmes and corporate programmes globally social investment.
Continue to increase revenue from more sustainable products Complete the review of our RSL and continue to increase ingredient transparency Deliver further improvements to our human rights due diligence and remediation processes Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 29 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements KPIs Performance Workplace GENDER DIVERSITY Commentary The percentage of women in our global New KPI for 2016.
women in Top 400 Senior positions Target: Expand our focus of diversity and talent by improving the retention rates of women from managers to senior managers.
LOST WORK DAY ACCIDENT RATE LWDAR Commentary The number of workplace accidents at Further reduction in LWDAR 0.071 manufacturing, warehouse and R&D sites, delivered in 2016. resulting in at least one day of lost time, 2013 0.107 per 100,000 hours worked.
2014 0.093 2015 0.080 Target to 2020: 2016 0.071 continued reduction in the LWDAR Healthier lives PEOPLE REACHED WITH Commentary HEALTH AND HYGIENE MESSAGING Reached a further 128m people 365m The total number of people encouraged during 2016. to improve their health and hygiene 2013 24m behaviour, as a result of our brands 2014 142m educational programmes.
2015 237m 2016 365m Target to 2020: 400m SAVE A CHILD EVERY MINUTE Commentary The amount RB committed to the An additional 1.5m provided 8.0m programme during the year, including to Save the Children during through employee fundraising.
2013 5.5m 2014 6.5m Target to 2020: 2015 6.5m remove diarrhoea as one 2016 8.0m of the top killers of children Products NET REVENUE FROM MORE Commentary SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS More than double the 13.2% The proportion of total Net Revenue Net Revenue from more of Net Revenue derived from product innovations with sustainable products since significant sustainability benefits, such as last year, amounting to 3.3% a reduction of 10% or more in CO 2013 2 over 1 billion.
2014 4.7% emissions, water use or virgin packaging 2015 6.0% material per dose.
2016 13.2% Target to 2020: 1 3 of Net Revenue Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 30 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic overview bettersociety in action Human rights We recognise our responsibility for respecting human rights wherever we operate.
In 2016, we relaunched our Human Rights and Responsible Business policy, reinforcing our commitment.
We continued to work with forums such as AIM-Progress, to promote responsible sourcing and sustainable production, and worked with suppliers to understand their performance in areas such as managing labour, health and safety, environment and business integrity.
We also provided compulsory human rights training to RBs site management, global procurement and supply services DvM teams, and engaged with suppliers through Workplace workshops and other initiatives.
In addition, we conducted a review against the UN Guiding Principles In 2016, we made further progress with our on Business and Human Rights, and identified people strategy, reinvigorated our health opportunities to improve our due diligence and remediation processes.
and safety approach, relaunched our Human Rights and Responsible Business policy and continued to work with stakeholders to address human rights issues.
Health and safety Health and safety is a business Reduction in our LWDAR imperative.
Since 2006, our robust since 2006: approach has reduced our lost working What were doing day accident rate LWDAR by 79% and cut the rate each year since 2012.
Despite 79% this, we are deeply saddened by the Our people deaths of two contractors in 2016, at an RB manufacturing site in Pakistan.
Our investigation and Improving gender balance and female leadership development, response has contributed to a further restructuring of engagement and retention were a major focus in 2016. our health and safety compliance programmes.
We We continued to implement Project DARE Develop, Attract, Retain, have strengthened our global standards and introduced Engage talented women, introduced initiatives such as the Regional Health & Safety Compliance Managers.
They Accelerate leadership programme for women, and enhanced will add rigour to annual audits across sites and increase support for women on maternity leave.
We also focused on training for our employees.
New global standards will unconscious bias and inclusive leadership.
Enhancing performance also set our minimum expectations in the highest-risk reviews was another key project.
We helped line managers to areas across all our sites.
At our manufacturing sites, we have inspiring and meaningful conversations with team members, will continue to develop an Environment, Health & giving employees clarity about their performance, their impact Safety EHS Competence framework for managers, and how they can develop.
This is improving both engagement supervisors and EHS professionals.
International assignments are key to our development model and we increased support for international transferees and their partners.
The percentages of female members in the Groups director, senior More than 700 female manager and all employee populations at 31 December 2016 were colleagues took part 27%, 20% and 42% respectively.
The Group has designated the in DARE forums, members of its Top40 and Top400 populations as RBs senior called Lean in Circles managers for the purpose of the gender split disclosure required bythe Companies Act 2006.
Of Board Directors, eight were male and threefemale, of senior managers, 346 were male and 86 female, and 15,681 of all employees were male and 11,430 female.
There is a variance in total employee numbers from those reported in Note 5 on page 119, in respect of contracted labour for which gender split information is not available.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 31 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements What were doing Brand purpose We continued to deliver health and hygiene awareness and education programmes to improve peoples lives.
Many of our programmes are linked to our brands, such as Durex, Mortein and Dettol.
We aim to reach 400 million people by 2020.
So far, we have reached 365 million since 2013.
This includes 120 million through hygiene and sanitation programmes, 217 million with sexual health messaging and 27 million with mosquitoborne disease education programmes.
Healthier lives We continued to promote healthier lives, Social investment reaching more people with our health and This year, we invested 8 million through our Save a Child Every hygiene messaging and supporting the Minute programme, to stop children dying from preventable diseases such as diarrhoea to build toilets to discourage open Save a Child Every Minute campaign.
defecation and to educate communities on hygiene habits.
Our social impact through this programme benefited more than 1.5million people in 2016.
What were doing Innovation We further improved the sustainability 13.2% profileofsome of our biggest selling of Net Revenue from brands, for example through reducing more sustainable packaging andcutting associated products emissions and reducing water consumption.
This helpedus to more than double our Net Revenue from more sustainable products to over 1 billion.
Products Stewardship We increased revenue from more In 2016, we started a full review of our Restricted sustainable products, grew the proportion Substances List, which ensures we have a consistent global approach to ingredients of concern.
We of more sustainable products in our continued to increase ingredient transparency, pipeline and revitalised our approach to with66% of our Net Revenue from products for which we publish ingredients lists.
We also accelerated our product safety.
commitment to phase out microbeads in our personal care products, recognising their negative effect on themarine environment.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
