74 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee Report On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the first report of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance CRSEC Committee for the year.
On 28 July 2016 the Board approved the establishment of a new CRSEC Board Committee.
The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its duty to safeguard and advance the Companys reputation for responsible and sustainable corporate conduct by reviewing, monitoring and assessing its approach to and management of corporate social responsibility, environmental and sustainability issues and behaviours, ethical conduct and regulatory compliance.
Whilst the Board has always overseen and monitored corporate responsibility, it was recognised that more time and capability was needed to give proper attention to the matter.
We are committed to We believe that policies alone are not ensuring that we conduct business responsibly and that best practice governance is seriously promoted internally with a sustainability mindset.
We Whilst we are on a journey which will continually change and evolve, we are pleased to have made great strides in have made substantial progress to date and changes have been welcomed by employees.
our governance approach and framework and will work tirelessly to ensure that our Composition programmes are integrated throughout The CRSEC Committee is made up entirely of Non-Executive Directors who are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the the business and that our high standards Nomination Committee.
Membership of the CRSEC Committee during are globally upheld and continually the year was as follows: strengthened.
Pam Kirby Chairman Adrian Bellamy Pam Kirby Nicandro Durante Chair of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee All Directors were appointed to the Committee on 28 July 2016.
The Deputy Company Secretary was Secretary to the Committee throughout the year.
Responsibilities The Committees responsibilities include overseeing and making recommendations to executives and the Board for actions to be taken in respect of the Companys corporate responsibility and sustainability, ethics and compliance strategies, policies, programmes and activities.
This includes those relating to human rights and product safety, regulatory and quality risk assurance and restrictive trade practices and ethical conduct as well as monitoring and reviewing their implementation.
The Committee meets at least three times per year.
The CEO, SVP General Counsel, Chief Safety, Quality and Compliance Officer CSQC, VP General Counsel Group Legal Affairs and Head of Internal Audit regularly attend meetings and other senior management attend when deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Time is allocated at each meeting for private discussion between Committee members and with the CSQC Officer and the Head of Internal Audit without the other invitees being present.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 75 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CRSEC Committee meetings take place ahead of Board meetings and The organisation has been focused on five key programmes.
the CRSEC Committee Chair provides an update of the key issues Health and Safety Providing clearer guidelines and standards and discussed to the Board at each meeting.
Minutes of CRSEC Committee ensuring clear and independent auditing: meetings are provided to the Board.
Its Terms of Reference are available Product safety Stepping up the requirements and focus to ensure on the Companys website.
that all our products have the best and most up-to-date safety assessments: Activity Quality Approval and funding to put in place improved business Following its establishment, the Committee met once during 2016. process to support the Quality Management System including Directors attendance is set out in the table on page 63. change control: Environment and Human rights Further strengthen our internal and At its inaugural meeting in 2016, the Committee established its terms external programme to actively manage compliance to RB standards of reference, agreed a standing agenda of matters to be discussed at in our own operations and with our direct supplier.
We will continue each meeting, determined priorities for 2017 and received and discussed to review and update our environmental guidelines and standards: reports from management.
The Committee also reflected on the tragedy Continue to drive significant reductions on our carbon and water in South Korea.
Both the Committee and the Boards top priorities footprint of our products.
have been absorbing the lessons learned, to prevent such an event ever happening again and to ensure that our governance structure and All of these actions together will help RB to continue to drive and programmes continue to put safety at their core.
improve our approach to SQC.
In conjunction with the establishment of our new Board committee to Focus for 2017 provide stewardship, advance our priorities and review performance Our focus over the coming year is to ensure that our compliance against our targets, a new organisational structure comprising three programmes are embedded in business practice and to build on our management committees was also set up.
Matters covered by the three commitments.
Deep-dive reviews have been scheduled to assess human management committees, whose work is overseen and monitored by rights and sustainability: employee safety and occupational health: the Committee, include: ethical conduct: product and consumer safety: legal compliance: global Governance Review Board Operating model compliance: regulatory matters: and data privacy.
Compliance Management Committee Consumer safety, employee health and safety, product regulation, substance regulation, At the start of 2017, the Company assembled a working party to review environmental strategy, policy and human rights: and the steps the business is taking to identify and prevent modern slavery Ethical Management Committee Ethics, the Groups Code of within our organisation and supply chain and provided the Committee Conduct, whistleblowing, and legal compliance, including data with the assurance to be able to recommend the approval by the Board protection, anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, of the statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. competition law and trade sanctions.
A number of training and compliance initiatives have already been We believe that policies alone are not sufficient in ensuring compliance.
implemented to increase awareness and understanding of human rights A new senior executive Chief Safety, Quality and Compliance Officer and slavery for both our employees and our suppliers, including position was created to lead a dedicated executive management team to mandatory eLearning for functions involved in supply chain communicate and embed the Groups compliance priorities globally.
We will continue to further improve our due diligence and remediation processes to ensure that we Driving SQC do not have slavery and trafficking in our operations and supply chain.
With clear direction from the Committee the Company has accelerated Our Modern Slavery Act Statement can be found on our website at the plans to improve and drive some of the key activities on safety www.
Some of the actions already taken in 2016 include setting up a dedicated organisation to manage safety, quality Over the next 12 months, we will thoroughly review the Companys and compliance reporting directly to the CEO.
procedures and policies in respect of regulatory, legal compliance, ethical conduct, employee safety, consumer safety and human rights The SQC function takes the operational lead for sustainability and matters.
We will ensure that we monitor and review implementation compliance, setting the agenda for the Group, supported by regional of, compliance with and enforcement of policies, establish targets and compliance managers, who ensure that policies and processes are rolled KPIs and champion integration and inclusion of corporate responsibility out throughout the business.
and sustainability into the current and future business activities of the Company.
Subject to the successful completion of the proposed Mead Johnson acquisition, the committee intends to adopt a crossfunctional in depth focus on the infant and nutrition category and for the new head of that function to provide feedback to the Committee at its meetings.
I look forward to reporting progress on our achievements in next years Annual Report.
Pam Kirby Chair of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee 20 March 2017 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements
