STR ATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 49 48 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION CONNECTING PEOPLE WITH HOMES A representation of the St Andrews Park development, Halling, Kent CREATING HIGH QUALITY HOMES THAT APPEAL TO A BROAD RANGE OF BUYERS IS KEY TO ENSURING THAT NEW DEVELOPMENTS FLOURISH CUSTOMERS ENJOYING THE REDROW WAY OF AND BECOME SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES LIVING AT ST ANDREWS PARK, HALLING, KENT STRATEGIC REPORT CONNECTING PEOPLE WITH HOMES Chloe and Matt Sustainability elements on the development Our development at St Andrews Park was launched three installed to link our homes with the lake and wildlife areas FIRST-TIME BUYERS Setting up home Pond feature years ago in Halling, a mid-sized village in the North Downs and new playgrounds and football pitches are planned to An attenuation pond will be situated to the east of the Read more on page 50 area of Kent.
Situated near to the River Medway and set help bring the residents together and encourage a community development.
This pond will be used to filter sediment against a scenic backdrop of chalk cliffs and the Blue Lake, spirit.
In addition, a footbridge will be built to connect with from surface water before being discharged directly to Melanie and Seyi YOUNG the River Medway.
this flagship project has transformed a former cement works the local village, providing access to shops, a pub and Moving out of London PROFESSIONALS into a highly desirable place to live.
Wildlife area Read more on page 50 Biodiversity enhancements on the development centre Before we could start building, the brownfield site required The consideration to detail that has gone into St Andrews on the wildlife area around the existing blue lake which Karen and Terry extensive remediation work.
In keeping with Redrows Park has not gone unnoticed and c60% of the planned 385 is formed with woodland, herb-rich wet grassland, GROWING FAMILIES A bigger home needed environmental policies, all materials salvaged from this homes on the development have already been sold.
Buyers colonising vegetation and reed beds.
Read more on page 50 process, including crushed concrete and metal, were either include a mix of first-time buyers, young professionals, Playground reused or recycled off site.
growing families and right sizers.
The development has also There will be a childrens play area to the south of the Grace and Jon attracted buy-to-let investors looking for properties within development which will consist of a climbing structure, Moving to be nearer Today, St Andrews Park offers everything from two bedroom MOVING UP commutable distance of London.
cradle nest, jumping disk, carousels, rotating beam, family and friends apartments to substantial family homes, located on a carefully balancing blocks and timber balancing beams.
Read more on page 51 designed development that takes full advantage of its From an unsightly shell of a cement works to a vibrant Other sustainability features include: outstanding landscape and ecology.
community offering a great quality of life, St Andrews Park Mike and Linda Energy efficient lighting in all homes and LED lights is a great example of what can be achieved through Wanted a detached home RIGHT SIZERS in street lighting columns Our carefully considered approach to placemaking has helped responsible redevelopment of Britains brownfield sites.
Read more on page 51 Bicycle racks available to some properties either in to integrate the development with its beautiful surroundings cycle stores for apartments or within a shed or garage and the existing community.
Footpaths are currently being Recycling bins provided by Medway Council Dr Nadeem BUY-TO-LET PV Solar panels A shrewd investment Good public transport links INVESTORS Read more on page 51 Considerate Constructor Site Good proportion of Affordable homes STR ATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 51 50 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION CONNECTING PEOPLE WITH HOMES CONTINUED STRATEGIC REPORT FIRST-TIME BUYERS YOUNG PROFESSIONALS GROWING FAMILIES MOVING UP RIGHT SIZERS BUY-TO-LET INVESTORS Chloe Ashby 23 and Matt Hacker 29 Melanie and Seyi Olubajo moved out of The Whites, parents Karen 32 and Grace Neville, a 31-year-old office Retirees Mike and Linda Remon see their Dr Nadeem Sajjad Raja 49 owns three are first-time buyers who used Help to London to take their first step onto the Terry 36, who both work in retail manager, moved out of a London four bedroom detached Oxford as an properties at St Andrews Park he lives Buy to make setting up home easier to property ladder.
Melanie 31 is a teacher, management wanted a bigger home for apartment to start a family with husband investment.
Mike 65 is a former sales in one and rents out the others.
Chloe is an administrator and and Seyi 34 is an accountant.
Daughter Sienna is Jon 35, a QA engineer.
They purchased a and marketing manager and Linda 54 Nadeem said: I was living in a four Matt is a senior consultant.
They three and since theyve moved into their Cambridge house type.
Melanie explained: We wanted to buy a bedroom Kenilworth and because I had purchased a Cambridge house type.
three bedroom Letchworth theyve had home of our own, but because of the high Grace said: Im originally from Chatham Wed previously downsized from a four extended family who come to visit I another child, Darcey.
Chloe said: We were both living at home prices in London we couldnt afford to buy but wed been living in a two bedroom bedroom detached home to a three decided to buy a larger property, a with our families: I was in Gravesend and in Islington where wed been renting an Karen said: We were living in a two apartment in Forest Hill, London, and bedroom semi but decided we wanted to detached Cambridge, also with four Matt in Croydon.
We made the decision to apartment.
We realised that moving to bedroom terrace with our daughter Sienna wanted to start a family, which was never go back to a detached property, said bedrooms.
St Andrews Park is near to my buy together because we dont see the Kent would be more affordable and saved and realised wed need an extra bedroom if going to happen in London.
I felt that we were lucky to be in a place of work and convenient for my benefit of renting.
We were open to for a year for a deposit.
we were to have another child.
We hadnt move back to Kent to be nearer to family position to be able to invest our money daughters school, plus the M2 and M20 are suggestions but soon realised that buying looked at new builds to start with and had and friends and looked at some new builds more wisely in bricks and mortar than in within easy reach and there are convenient Moving out of London is a really good new meant we wouldnt need to spend considered buying an older property to do but they seemed too modern.
Wed been looking at St links to Kings Cross.
It fits really well with option for first-time buyers and money replacing the kitchen, bathroom up.
We saw St Andrews Park online and Andrews Park for some time, but never my lifestyle and because everythings new I professionals like us and an investment in We really liked the traditional look of and lots of other things like in a second came to look and were impressed by the thought wed buy a new house.
We put dont need to do anything to the houses, our future, plus the mortgage repayments Redrows Heritage Collection and decided hand home.
size of the properties: theyre bigger than our home on the market and had 24 plus theyre energy efficient so bills should are lower than the rent we were paying in it was exactly what we wanted.
We hadnt the other new builds we viewed.
I brought viewings in one day and an instant buyer be lower.
Theyre ideal properties for We really liked the Heritage Collection London.
A friend suggested that we came really thought about living in Halling but as my dad, whos in the building trade, with but nowhere to move to.
When I visited the Redrow and did a test run from St Andrews Park: to St Andrews Park and while we hadnt soon as we visited St Andrews Park we me to view and he gave Redrow the we had an email from Redrow telling us sales office and saw how quickly the its 10 minutes to Ebbsfleet International wanted a new build, we liked the realised how beautiful it is with a thumbs up.
there was a property that had just properties were selling I knew it was a train station for Matt and I to get the traditional style of the houses and the countryside feel, but still close to the become available.
favoured area and I would be able to secure coach to Canary Wharf.
For the price of a attention to detail.
We were able to choose the kitchen and motorways.
I drive to Ebbsfleet station and tenants quickly so I bought a third house.
four bedroom home here we would only add some other features using My Redrow.
then get the high-speed train to work.
We liked the traditional style of the We bought a four bedroom detached have been able to buy a two bedroom flat It was great to be able to get an idea of Heritage Collection and the Oxford in We couldnt have afforded a three Oxford like one of the show homes in Croydon or Bromley.
Help to Buy has what it would look like and then keep particular because of the accommodation bedroom home in London but moving out because we liked the aesthetic look of the enabled us to buy a bigger home so that, things in the basket and double checking it it offers.
From that point it was an easy of the capital to St Andrews Park meant property, particularly the way the light looking to the future, if we start a family in the sales office before confirming the decision.
I was born and bred in Medway we were able to buy a four bedroom comes through from the open plan we wont have to move again.
We socialise with friends in so know the area.
The homes are in a rural detached Cambridge.
kitchen and dining room when you walk in be here for at least 10 years.
Rochester and have a friend who lives in location close to the Downs and we can to the house, its really homely.
Its a good Halling so wed seen the village lifestyle, walk out into the countryside without Matt added: Its a completely different family home and were thinking about everyone seems really friendly.
Its close to having to drive.
Were making friends with market to London.
We could have bought a starting a family.
When youre renting the A2 but not too close, plus there are our new neighbours as, because its a new smaller property closer to work but we youre limited as to what you can do to good schools nearby for when the children development, were all in the same boat.
decided wed rather buy a detached house the property, but because this is our home are older.
and the commute is only about an hour.
weve been able to put our own stamp on We have friends who are starting to move it and make it our own.
out of London because theyre being priced out of the market and get better value further out as long as the commute is ok.
