STR ATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 45 44 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED WE ARE FOCUSED ON DEVELOPING THE SKILLS OF OUR OWN CURRENT TEAM AND ENSURING WE ATTRACT BOTH EXPERIENCED TALENT AND NEW AND ENTHUSIASTIC YOUNG PEOPLE INTO OUR BUSINESS TO UNDERPIN OUR GROWTH OBJECTIVE 4,787 3,859 2,952 2,687 VALUE AND DEVELOP OUR PEOPLE 14,285 13 14 15 16 TRAINING DAYS IN LAST FOUR YEARS STRATEGIC REPORT EMPLOYEES 2016 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS As we have grown, so has our workforce.
During the year we created over 300 new directly employed jobs, increasing our total number of up over20% to c300 direct employees to 1,962 at June 2016.
Many of these new jobs were taken by young people TRAINEES starting out on their careers and entering our industry for the first time.
Given this 19% increase in employee numbers, we are pleased to have again maintained our proportion Top 100 of trainees at 15% of the increased workforce, APPRENTICESHIP EMPLOYER 2015 with over half of these being trade apprentices.
It is also very satisfying to have been listed as a Top 100 Apprenticeship Employer in the National Apprenticeship Service awards for the third consecutive year.
In addition, we Employer of the Year were named GB Employer of the Year at the 2015 CITB APPRENTICESHIP AWARDS 2015 Construction Industry Training Board STRATEGY IN ACTION BUILDING A PARTNERSHIP WITH SOUTH ESSEX COLLEGE Apprenticeship Awards.
We have an enviable track record in this area and it is pleasing to see so many As part of a strategic partnership with the Homes and Communities Agency and Basildon Borough Council, our Eastern of our apprentices taking the next steps on their division has joined forces with South Essex College in an ongoing alliance, providing a variety of opportunities to help embed career paths by moving onto our further site classroom based learning, for Construction and the Built Environment students.
Site visits, work experience and personal EQUIPPING OUR PEOPLE WITH training programmes.
insights from Redrow employees all provide invaluable knowledge of the many career paths available.
THE SKILLS THEY NEED IS AN LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT Barry Port, project director for our Eastern division, said: Its important that we continue to attract young people into the ESSENTIAL PART OF GROWING Training Centres industry and its great to see the students from South Essex College showing such enthusiasm for construction.
Trainees make Equipping our people with the skills they need is up around 15% of Redrows direct employees and were looking to maintain that going forward as the company grows.
Who THE BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE an essential part of growing the business in a knows, maybe some of the students from the college could be site managers in future.
We continue to John Smith, curriculum manager for South Essex College, said: The site visit was an invaluable experience for the students as develop our team at all levels and we completed for some of them it was the first time theyd been on a live construction project.
It was great for them to see how professional c4,800 training days during the year, a 24% and passionate the Redrow team are and how people working in construction should conduct themselves.
Its helped the increase on the previous year.
Much of our training students relate their college work to actual projects and inspire them to achieve better grades and enter the construction is carried out in-house.
In addition to our national industry as a professional.
Many of them have asked how to apply for a trainee position within Redrow.
training centre in the Midlands where our in-house Learning and Development team are based, we Student Callum Ewing 18 added: It was great to be on site and to see how everything that weve been learning in the have opened a Southern training centre based classroom can be applied in practice in the construction of new homes.
at our Colindale Gardens development and have added training facilities at our Head Office.
STR ATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 47 46 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED STRATEGIC REPORT We have continued investing in our e-learning This year our Graduate Programme Community EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT platform, evolve, with over 80 modules Project was to create a Fairy garden for the Our people are at the heart of our business and we now available.
children at Hope House Childrens Hospice in recognise that for them to contribute to the best of Oswestry.
The Graduates were responsible for their ability they need to work in an environment Our structured approach to succession planning planning, managing and delivering the project, which is supportive, rewarding and enjoyable.
We identifies and develops future leaders and senior with the generous support of over 30 suppliers therefore regularly evaluate employee engagement managers, as well as individuals to fill other and subcontractors who donated time, money and and use the results to improve working practices.
The garden transformation was carried A survey in 2015 by Employee Feedback Ltd put is conducted across the whole organisation to out over three days and was a great success.
Redrow in the top 25% of the organisations they identify people with the potential to progress work with.
A further interim mini survey was in the organisation and we put in place structured HEALTH & SAFETY conducted this year.
Employee Feedback Ltd development to help them fulfil their potential.
Accidents reported employees were now even more engaged Build output across the Group increased by around than in 2015 advising that there was increased This talent management process not only aids the 20% during the year but despite this we again satisfaction with working conditions, job structure progression of individuals careers but also helps reduced the number of notifiable accidents per and training and even more commitment.
the business retain key people for the ongoing site from 0.23 in 2015 to 0.20 in 2016.
Overall growth of the organisation.
In 2016 we more than tripled the number of Awards individuals undertaking structured leadership This year our developments received five awards development.
With the introduction of further in the annual NHBC Safety Awards, two more than leadership and talent programmes, such as a last year.
We have also been recognised for our mentoring scheme, we will continue to increase automated external defibrillator initiative, our investment in future leaders.
receiving the Outstanding Organisation Award at the 2015 North West Construction Safety Developing the next generation Group Awards.
of housebuilders Redrow North West division apprentice Liam Contractor engagement Sargeant was named GB Apprentice of the Year at Redrow understands that in order to improve the 2015 CITB Apprenticeship Awards.
Liam has health and safety standards at site level continual now been promoted to Trainee Site Assistant.
engagement on health and safety and environmental matters with our contractor base In addition, 11 graduates from our Trainee Site is essential.
Numerous events have taken place Assistant Programme, introduced two years ago, over the last 12 months to assist our contractors are now Assistant Managers, whilst eight in maintaining their knowledge of current health Assistants have progressed to Site Manager.
and safety issues and transfer this knowledge We recognise however that there remains a skills within their own businesses.
shortage within the construction industry and that Community engagement it is important we create ongoing partnerships The Health and Safety Team, assisted by our with educational establishments to help address construction and sales teams continues to carry this.
For example, Redrow continues to be an out safety talks at primary and junior schools employer patron of the West Midlands University close to our developments.
Our popular mascots Technical College WMUTC which provides Buster and Buddy help us to engage with young education for 14 to 18 year-olds across the children in a fun and informative way.
During the curriculum but with a focus on the built year over 500 children have attended these environment and IT.
During the year we hosted important informative presentations.
30 students on visits to our developments and Redrow senior management have visited the WMUTC to give lectures and engage with the students on team project work.
Graduate Programme Community Project at Hope House Childrens Hospice, Oswestry, Shropshire
