42 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Corporate responsibility information, which spurs innovation and enables critical Corporate responsibility CR decisionmaking.
To broaden access to its content, Elsevier supports programmes where resources are often scarce.
Among ensures good management of them is Research4Life, a partnership with UN agencies and approximately 200 publishers: we provide core and cutting-edge risks and opportunities, helps us scientific information to researchers in more than 100 developing countries.
As a founding partner and the leading contributor, attract and retain the best people Elsevier provides over a quarter of the material available in Research4Life, encompassing approximately 3,000 Elsevier and strengthens our corporate journals and 20,000 e-books.
In 2016, there were more than 4m Research4Life article downloads from ScienceDirect.
It means performing Elsevier Foundation continued to support scientific publishing in developing countries including the African Journal Partnership tothe highest commercial and Project to further expand our Publishers Without Borders programme, which pairs our colleagues expertise in research ethical standards and channelling with the needs of the African health science community.
In the year, Christiana Figueres, former head of the UN Framework our knowledge and strengths, as Convention on Climate Change, spoke at the launch of Lancet Countdown, an initiative of the Lancets Planetary Health global leaders in our industries, Commission, tracking progress on health and climate change.
Risk & Business Analytics Consistent engagement with stakeholders, including Over the last four years, LexisNexis Risk Solutions Tax Refund shareholders, employees, governments and communities where Investigative Solution has saved 11 US states more than $500m we operate, helps us identify our material corporate responsibility by averting false tax refunds.
In addition, by 2016 LexisNexis Risk issues.
Stakeholder feedback ensures alignment with our Solutions enabled five US states to identify more than $4.4m in non-financial objectives.
The Board of Directors, senior fraudulent supplemental nutrition Food Stamp payments since management and the Corporate Responsibility Forum oversee 2012: this will result in an estimated annual savings of $5.6m by CRobjectives and monitor performance against them.
stopping programme participants from receiving multiple benefits within and in more than one state.
We concentrate on the contributions we make as a business Accuity provides comprehensive data and software to control and on good management of the material areas that affect financial processing risk and compliance.
Its tools like Global allcompanies: WatchList help in the fight against anti-money laundering AML.
In 2016, it produced the report, the Challenges of AML for Law 1.
Our unique contributions Firms 2016, to highlight sector feedback on due diligence and 2.
Governance opportunities to improve compliance processes.
People In 2016, Proagrica, dedicated to feeding the world sustainably through its content and solutions, launched Agility Crops to 4.
Customers provide real-time data to improve productivity.
Community 750,000 hectares of cropping across the UK, it allows in-season soil and other analytics for the first time, replacing retrospective 6.
Supply chain studies which can only be used historically.
Environment During 2016, RBI became a founding member of the Tech Talent Charter, committed to increasing the ratio of women and 1.
Our unique contributions under-represented groups working in technology.
Together with other peers, RBI is working to encourage education and best We make a positive impact on society through our knowledge, practice in tech recruitment and retention of diverse tech talent.
resources and skills, including: Legal universal sustainable access to information LexisNexis Legal & Professional promotes the rule of law and advance of science and health access to justice through its products and services.
During 2016, colleagues continued their efforts to support the transition to protection of society democracy in Myanmar.
They have been building support for promotion of the rule of law and justice apilot programme in a rural village in Myanmar, Wellgyi, to establish a land registry database.
fostering communities The difficulties farmers face include being arrested and jailed for Scientific, Technical & Medical farming what they believe to be their land.
Helping them measure Elsevier, the worlds leading provider of scientific, technical and and document land boundaries is the first step and we are medical information, plays an important role in advancing human collaborating with other companies such as Google and Edulink welfare and economic progress through its science and health inthis effort.
