Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 52 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Our overarching goal in all of our CSR activities is to support thesustainable growth of our business and ensure its longevity andprosperity.
To support this aim, our CSR strategy focuses onthematerial enviromental impacts that we are best placed toinfluence andcontrol.
Allen Roberts, Group Finance Director We have assessed our CSR impacts This year, we have developed a new Strategy update and have identified those most material strategy to strengthen the level of due At Renishaw we seek excellence in to our business: these include waste diligence applied to our supply chain.
every aspect of our business and are management, energy consumption, GHG This policy has built upon the processes committed to managing our business in emissions and people.
already developed to mitigate the risk of a responsible manner.
We recognise that utilisation of conflict minerals within our we have a responsibility to our people, Human rights and slavery supply chains, and applied these general and the communities within which we A strict non-discrimination policy is principles tailored as required, to modern operate.
We are seeking to address the embedded into our Group Business slavery and human rights risks.
We have fact that our operations, products and Code, which states the minimum developed a risk-based approach to sourcing have both direct and indirect standards expected within the Group and ensure that our efforts are focused on environmental impacts.
We believe that by from our representatives.
This Code sets theat risk areas.
minimising these impacts and operating out our position that our employees have in an ethical and sustainable manner, We continue to use our Group the right to non-discriminatory treatment we are able to reduce risks in our supply Business Code and other policies in and equal opportunities, and to work in chain and make a positive difference in order to set expectations with potential a safe and secure working environment, these communities.
The full Code can be found with a fair wage.
Proper consideration is our sustainability efforts on areas where atwww.
given to applications for employment from we believe we are best placed to make all genders, ethnic backgrounds and from improvements.
These areas are resource those with disabilities.
Opportunities are and energy, education, community and given to employees who become disabled innovation.
We are proactively addressing to continue in their employment or to be issues such as rising energy costs, trained for other positions.
constraints on emissions, finite resources, increasing water scarcity, the need for greater transparency and skills shortages.
Aerial view of the Miskin site showing installation of solar panels.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 53 2016 CSR targets and progress Targets Progress We have been re-certified to the Carbon Trust waste standard.
73% Just over 2,478 tonnes of waste reduction of waste to landfill from from our UK operations was diverted our UK operations.
5% reduction of waste to landfill from UK operations 95% For more information see page 61 of all waste diverted from landfill.
We commissioned two further solar arrays this year.
816,000 kWh of electricity generated this year.
We have added more low energy lighting systems, reducing our Energy consumption: demand by a further 1.2m kWh.
Solar arrays with an annual generating Decrease reliance on fossil fuel capacity in excess of Over 600,000 kWh reduction of derived energy energy demand for space heating.
For more information see pages 5960 1,308,000 kWh are now in operation.
A further 12% 2015: 33% reduction of GHG emissions from natural 10% gas consumption.
increase in GHG tCO e emissions per 2 8% reduction in Scope 3 m turnover compared to 2015.
3% reduction in GHG tCO e per 2 2.7m invested in energy million pounds turnover compared reduction projects.
3% For more information see page 60 decrease in absolute GHG emissions.
4,286 people employed, an increase of 4.5% since last year.
5% Over 238 people across the Group of our people are on structured on structured apprenticeship and apprenticeship or graduate People: graduate programmes.
5% of our employees as Over 2m invested in training this year.
apprentices, graduates or sponsored students on structured programmes.
For more information see pages 5455
