Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 54 Strategic report Our strategy in action People Roxanne Pollard, Mechanical Design Engineer, started at Renishaw as an apprentice engineer and completed a 4-year apprenticeship, during which she obtained a NVQ level 3, VRQ, HNC and HND in engineering.
She has since gone on to work with the Group Engineering team as a mechanical design engineer, whilstcompleting a Renishaw-funded part-time mechanical engineering degree.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 55 Recently appointed as a director on the Training for the Equator gauging system Board, Will Lee benefited from an MBA taking place at New Mills.
sponsored by Renishaw see below.
We also actively encourage upward leadership management development, People communication through various other induction, soft skills, career development Diversity channels.
Our suggestion scheme and health and safety.
Renishaw enjoys the advantages of enables our people to submit ideas for The Academy was launched in 2010 being a global company.
The suitability for adoption with the aim to develop future application nationalities represented in our senior is assessed, with awards given for engineers to meet the growing demand of management group, we benefit from their the most successful implementations.
Renishaws increasingly diverse range of understanding of different cultures, and There isalso an inventors award scheme products.
Training is vital to maintain our acknowledge the advantages that these for individuals who are named as inventors reputation for excellent technical support, varied experiences bring to the business.
and since its inception, the Academy On 30th June 2016, we employed 4,286 Training and development has provided a wide and varied range of people across the Group, an increase training programmes from Face-to-Face of 4% since last year.
Of these, 3,296 We value our highly-skilled people and Communication and Report Writing, 77% are male and 990 23% are female.
recognise that retaining them is essential to Fundamentals of Manufacturing There are nine directors on the Board, to the future of our business: as such, and CNC Programming.
In October consisting of seven males and two we place a large emphasis on ensuring 2015, the first bespoke Key Account females.
The senior management group that our training programmes work Management KAM course was delivered is made up of 60 people, of which 58 effectively for our people and business to Renishaw Hong Kong employees with 97% are male and 2 3% are female.
To illustrate this Will Lee, who further courses scheduled throughout the Renishaw regards its senior management joined Renishaw as a graduate in 1996, coming year.
group to be the Executive Board, the has progressed all the way to become heads of each products line, sales a Board director in 2016.
This year, In order to expand this facility and territory, and manufacturing organisation we invested around 2m in training maintain the quality of the courses that report directly into the Executive programmes.
This investment has been being delivered to our people and Board, and the directors of Renishaws used to develop 120 apprentices, 118 customers, the Academy introduced subsidiary undertakings.
graduates on our graduate training a module management system to programme, and career development for ensure that the content of all training Communication and participation employees.
We are currently funding the documentation is kept up-to-date.
As a group that operates in a large further education of 190 of our people This will be vitally important as we expand number of territories across the globe, across the business at HNC, HND and the Academy training material into other werecognise the need for clear and open degree level, in engineering, software and Renishaw subsidiaries.
communication between sites, functions commercial business disciplines.
Our flat This summer, some 100 2015: 105 MySkills was launched in May 2015 and is structure encourages our people to voice students join Renishaw for paid a library of training that can be accessed their ideas or concerns and we have placements 60 summer placements, by employees around the world.
It has received many excellent ideas as a result.
been designed to equip middle and To facilitate the dissemination of topThere are 120 craft and technical senior managers with the necessary down information, regular communication apprentices currently in training skills and behaviours to lead Renishaw meetings are held with a Board member 2015: 114, with 4 in our German to meet business challenges.
Presentations of the annual subsidiary, and the rest in the UK.
participate in the programmes and actively and half-year financial results are given We have a further 48 new apprentices pursue their own development plans to employees at our larger locations, confirmed for September 2016, 2015: 44 with the support of their line manager.
supplemented by video-conference and 76 new graduates also start with Within the library we have a broad range presentations for smaller, remote sites.
Renishaw this summer 2015: 70. of courses focused on equal opportunities and diversity, technical development, Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 56 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Renishaw is an official supplier to the Renishaw sponsors half-time tag rugby Land Rover BAR Americas Cup team.
for local schools at Scarlets Rugby.
No work-related ill health or disease was During the past year we have hosted Health and safety reported, but health monitoring in the form tour groups and given talks to a range We continue to further develop our of lung function testing, hearing testing of organisations including primary and health and safety management system and eye testing, where appropriate for a secondary schools, universities and and we are bringing more sites online job role, has been established for several colleges, business clubs and societies.
with our health and safety strategy.
Health support This is true on a global basis and includes Our management system has been for employees is offered in the form of events held by our subsidiaries in Mexico, designed to be in line with best practice subsidised health monitoring blood Italy, Spain, the Czech Republic and and the requirements of the ISO18001 pressure, diabetes, cholesterol and BMI.
With an increasing profile, we are standard.
We recognise the importance To support the physical and mental also regularly asked to give interviews of dealing with any and all injuries, as welfare of our people we have regular to international, national and local anything, without the correct medical onsite visits from two occupational media, and contribute our knowledge attention, could develop into something physicians who are available for our through conferences and debates more serious.
All injuries, from the smallest employees to discuss any issues that on a range of topics including skills, of paper cuts, are recorded, enabling us they have.
These doctors also act as apprenticeships, additive manufacturing, to manage treatment and investigate all senior advisors to our Group Health and IT systems, exports, education, human incidents effectively.
Safety and HR functions to ensure that resource management, innovation The total number of accidents for the best practices in occupational health and manufacturing.
period was 296 2015: 230 against are observed.
We continue to actively support the a year-end headcount of 4,286 A total of 113 2015: 67 near-misses were business community regionally, nationally 2015: 4,112.
This equates to an accident recorded for the period.
No significant and internationally, through membership ratio of 0.069 accidents per person repeating common causes have of trade and lobbying associations such and is 23% up on the same period the been established.
as the European Society for Precision year before.
This is because we have Engineering & Nanotechnology, the extended our reporting programme Community Confederation of British Industry, the to all sites across the Group and so With an increasing global footprint, we Dental Laboratories Association UK, have a much increased scope of data recognise the positive contribution that the Association of British Healthcare capture.
Our online incident reporting can be made to our local communities Industries, the Additive Manufacturing system continues to be used effectively, through varied interactions with local Users Group USA, Verein Deutscher encouraging employees to report all residents, businesses, schools and  e. V. incidents regardless of severity, and not-for-profit organisations.
This is Germany, UCIMU-SISTEMI PER is enabling us to record trends more especially true in the West of England PRODURRE Italy and the UKs effectively.
We currently do not see any and South Wales, where we are a Manufacturing Technologies Association, overall trends with the data we capture significant employer.
where two senior managers are other than that the majority of our board members.
We also support incidents are minor cuts.
In many of our markets, we communicate local chambers of trade and business a positive story about the role played by There were four reportable accidents networking groups.
science, engineering and manufacturing to under the UK RIDDOR reporting enhance the lives of the general populace Renishaw is also a member of various requirements: one neck strain: two and the attractive nature of a career within industry research centres across the fractured fingers: and one deep cut, these sectors.
We see this as a vital step globe: some of these include The resulting in a total lost time of 714 hours, to overcome perceptions about career Manufacturing Technology Centre UK, or 96.5 days.
options in these areas and to ensure a the Advanced Manufacturing Research strong pipeline of future talent, not just Centre UK, Canada Makes Canada, for our own needs, but also for our wider PrziGen Germany, Light Alliance supply chain and customer base.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 57 Training school teachers at Scuola Indian child Poorva whose operation Renishaw supported a facial implant Camerana in Turin, Italy.
was financed by Renishaw employees.
We continue to sponsor and judge a Technical Innovation Group as an official Renishaw is also highly supportive of range of regional and national business supplier, providing expertise in additive its local communities elsewhere in the award programmes that help encourage manufacturing and position feedback world.
In Turin, Renishaw S. p. A. is running and recognise business and individual encoding to assist the team in its attempt a project with Scuola Camerana, a excellence.
Ben Taylor was a judge to win the Americas Cup.
school supported by Turins Industrial for the West of England Business Union and Chamber of Commerce, Charity Awards in the period, whilst Head which aims to train both employed and of Communications, Chris Pockett, In the UK, the Renishaw Charities unemployed people using the most helps to judge the main business and Committee RCC was formed in the up-to-date industrial technologies.
1980s to distribute funds to charitable technology awards programmes in Bristol Renishaw is supplying metal 3D-printed and Gloucestershire.
and voluntary organisations and support parts, software, training, application the individual fundraising efforts of UK engineers and access to Renishaws To further our aim of establishing employees.
The RCC is made up of demo area, to help educate the schools awareness of Renishaw as a significant representatives from Renishaws main teachers about additive manufacturing regional employer, we continue to sponsor Gloucestershire sites and has a particular and future technologies.
a wide range of festivals, sports clubs focus on assisting organisations that help and organisations in the West of England In India, Renishaw employees raised enrich the lives of children and adults, from and South Wales.
During the year, we funds to support Poorva, a four-yeartoddler groups and sports clubs, through sponsored the Bristol Posts Super old girl, who contracted Guillain-Barr to organisations that support disabled Science schools competition which gave syndrome, a rare and serious condition people and the bereaved.
Donations are a prize of 10,000 to the winner to spend of the peripheral nervous system which also made to organisations located close on science-related projects.
paralysed her from the neck down.
A separate international Poorvas family was unable afford the In South Wales, we have developed a fund is administered by the RCC, that necessary operation, but together with relationship with Scarlets Rugby, one donates monies to aid the victims of a contribution from Renishaw Indias natural and other disasters.
of the four professional Welsh regional charities committee, they were able to rugby union teams, where we sponsor During the year, the RCC made pay for the operation.
Today, Poorva has Welsh international Samson Lee and the donations to 260 diverse organisations completely regained mobility and is able to Clubs half-time tag rugby sessions for totalling 102,000 2015: 99,000. talk, eat and move her hands.
We also sponsor Swansea Beneficiaries included Cubs and Brownies City footballer Ki Sung-Yeung, who plays As a result of Renishaws work with groups, church restoration funds, disability internationally for South Korea, and Ben the British Association of Oral and support groups, primary and secondary Morgan, the Gloucester and England Maxillofacial Surgeons, we sponsored schools, counselling and carers support rugby international.
In Germany, we its sub-committee, the Norman Rowe groups, hospice care organisations, continue to sponsor Handball-Bundesliga International Educational Foundation, animal sanctuaries and senior citizen team HBW Balingen-Weilstetten, which is to help undertake a mission to Nepal groups.
The RCC also fully matches based in an area where many of our major to train local surgeons.
Renishaw also funds raised by employees for UK-wide customers are located.
donated an additively manufactured organisations such as Children in Need orbital floor implant.
The implant patient With significant ongoing public interest in and MacMillan Cancer Support.
was previously imaged using a CT 3D printing, we have collaborated with Significant donations of 2,000 or scanner.
The scan data then allowed a individuals and organisations on a range more were made by the RCC to six digital design to be created which was of projects, which this year included organisations, including a 3D printer for manufactured using Renishaws metal assistance to the Jet Age Museum in the National Star College, support for a 3D printing technology.
The implant was Gloucestershire which is restoring the new centre for Cotswold Cats & Dogs, successfully fitted to the patient during cockpit of a 1936 Hawker Typhoon and support to the Dean Forest Railway.
We also joined Land Rover BARs Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 58 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Pupils building a Greenpower Goblins A Technology Teardown session car at the FDC in Miskin.
to take up apprenticeships, jobs or further Another Bristol initiative is our sponsorship Education education career pathways in highof the Bristol Aerospace Centre BAC, Five years ago, The Engineering UKreport value engineering.
where we are donating 180,000 over stated that 27% of 1114 year-olds three years to create a museum and thought engineering was a desirable Moreover, the FDC will aim to underpin educational resource that will showcase career, and 37% of 1516 year-olds would and enhance students contextual the citys role in aviation history and consider a career in engineering.
In 2015, understanding of the school curriculum.
the good news is that those figures had We hope this will start to address the Sitting alongside a new permanent hangar risen to 43% and 49% respectively.
criticism raised in this years Engineering for the Concorde aircraft, the BAC aims Clearly the work that the engineering UK report that pupils are not exposed to to be a highly participative centre for community has been doing in schools is engineering, science or maths.
Its proximity starting to have an impact but there is still to our main operations and motorway This year we recruited our first lots of work to do in particular areas.
Education Liaison Officer for Wales, networks means that the Centre will form Lack of information about the realities based at the Miskin site.
This new role a key part of our schools engagement of engineering is an obvious issue for will aim to implement the successful programmes, making resources schools.
Few are exposed to engineering accessible to our special relationship model of schools engagement from at school directly, and the applied maths schools in Bristol, Gloucestershire and Gloucestershire, and work with schools modules of GCSE and A-Level only across South Wales to create our longSouth Wales.
give a taste of engineering calculations.
We have continued to train all our new There is some exposure in physics, and graduates and second-year apprentices One of the successful initiatives that maybe in the better-equipped design to be STEM ambassadors.
We now have we run is Technology Teardowns.
and technology workshops, but going Everyday products such as printers, over 140 ambassadors who carry out at from school to engineering, whether as mobile phones and laptops are taken least one STEM-related activity each year, a degree or apprenticeship, is going to to sustain and grow our multiple initiatives apart and with the help of experienced be a step into the unknown for most with schools and universities, including Renishaw engineers, pupils begin to young people.
talks and lectures, career fairs, after understand how the item works and Renishaw genuinely believes that why it is designed in a particular way.
school clubs and STEM projects.
participating in making things, and Pupils from primary to sixth form, and We are continuing to develop relationships understanding how products are both girls and boys, really gain from with key universities that have been designed is important in influencing this experience.
identified as having relevant courses for young people considering a career in We have now established good our business needs.
With support from the Welsh sponsorship of engineering societies relationships with schools in Government, we have developed a and Formula Student teams.
We have a Gloucestershire and North Bristol, but Fabrication Development Centre FDC at number of research projects, PhD and we wish to work harder with schools in our manufacturing site at Miskin, Wales, the more populated Bristol region to get undergraduate projects with several which we believe is unique in the UK.
our name known by pupils as a potential universities, and often give lectures, Our aim is to become a key educational employability talks and attend career company with whom they can have a resource for hands-on learning of fairs to raise the profile of engineeing great career.
Renishaw and the Bristol design, fabrication, manufacturing and and Renishaw.
Post newspaper teamed up to offer engineering skills, through which process one Bristol school the chance to win We continue to work with leading industry we will raise engineerings profile to 10,000 to fund anything in the name of organisations and engineering peers to encourage more students, especially girls, science education.
The winning school, advise government on national policy to choose STEM science, technology, Wicklea Academy, is intending to create that will benefit the sector in general.
an environmental area as part of an For example, we are a board member This will encourage more young people outdoor classroom.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 59 Over 2,500 students have attended Renishaw has independent certification Renishaw's waste reduction achievements Miskin Education Days since 2012. for its impact on CO emissions.
2 of the Royal Academy of Engineerings Over the past 12 months, we have of renewable energy at some of our Diversity Leadership Group which invested in additional onsite energy overseas sites and further optimisations hasbeen set up to help to remove generation in the UK which has atour larger UK sites as a priority.
barriers and encourage more women significantly increased our solar We have also recognised that an area in and other under-represented groups photovoltaics generating capacity.
At the which we can reduce our environmental into engineering.
end of 2015 we had just over 250,000 impact is our approach to the design of kWh generating capacity at our New Mills This year through the Diversity Leadership product packaging.
We have added further generating Group Renishaw has made a major a packaging development team with potential of around 846,000 kWh at contribution to the Engineering Fast the task of improving the design of our Miskin site and 212,000 kWh at Track programme.
This was a series packaging by using alternative materials, Stonehouse.
This brings us to a total of workshops delivered to students improving recyclability, reducing material generating capacity of just over 1,308,000 from ethnic minority backgrounds costs, reducing labour costs, reducing kWh, which is 4.4% of our UK 3.5% and women who were studying an volumetric weight during shipping global electricity demand.
engineering degree but were struggling and reducing the GHG impact of our to know how to get into the industry.
This year we have achieved an absolute shipments and the raw materials that Renishaw collaborated with other large reduction of our total GHG emissions we purchase.
This initiative is considered engineering companies and Sponsors for of 3% but our normalised statutory strategically important for both current and Educational Opportunity SEO London to emissions have increased by 10%.
new products, given that we export 95% deliver a programme that helped them to of our goods and can therefore make At our sites across the globe we house apply for jobs and understand the career improvements to our overall CO impact 2 over 4,286 people, with sites ranging opportunities available.
associated with logistics activities, as well in size from two people, to our UK as those associated with the purchasing headquarters, which houses 1,380 in Environment of raw materials.
In addition, work is eightbuildings.
Our buildings range from We recognise that improving the ongoing to reduce the polystyrene-based a 19th century Grade II listed cotton operational efficiencies of our locations products used to transport goods within mill, to state-of-the-art, purpose-built across the world contributes to the the business and to move towards more modern buildings, and offices in large sustainable growth of our business.
and small multipurpose properties We continue to work hard to ensure around the world.
Across our 14 UK In the UK, Renishaw continues to that the impact of our business activities sites we have undergone an extensive participate in the Carbon Reduction is as low as practical.
Through our programme of refurbishment.
As part Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency assessments we have identified that the of this process, we have changed Scheme and the Carbon Disclosure areas of our operations with the most our thinking with respect to financial Project CDP.
We use the CDP as a significant impact are energy consumption payback periods for energy efficiency benchmarking tool and are working and waste generation.
Accepting significantly longer extensively to ensure that our efforts in that our business travel and product payback when considering investment GHG emission management are fully shipments contribute heavily to our in solar panels, triple glazing, LED disclosed and are as transparent as is carbon footprint.
has allowed expected by our people, customers, and us to create a much more sustainable investors.
We successfully completed building infrastructure.
We have invested our energy audits for the Energy over 4.3m this year to increase the Savings Opportunity Scheme and energy efficiency of our buildings.
through this work, we have identified a This work has allowed us to reduce number of opportunities to make further our electricity demand for the future by energy savings.
We are currently looking at the feasibility Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 60 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued 1 3 2014 2015 2016 Renishaw is legally obliged to report on Scope 1 and 2 emissions as defined by Scope 1 the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
However, Gas consumption 1,438.39 962.30 846.00 through analysis, itis evident that our Owned transport 2,684.40 2,293.66 2,515.38 Scope 3 emissions amount to a significant Generator diesel 24.74 124.31 32.61 proportion of our carbon footprint.
We will Heating oil 43.57 41.09 253.91 continue to disclose our Scope 1, 2, and significant Scope 3 emissions, and to put Fugitive emissions 252.67 262.79 305.73 efforts into improving data quality, and Electricity generated 5.98 52.02 expanding our Scope 3 data capture to Out of scope bio fuel blend 55.35 59.58 75.95 present a more complete picture of our Total Scope 1 tCO e 4,443.76 3,690.13 4,005.65 2 GHG emissions.
During the year, our total GHG emissions for Scope 1 and Scope 2 2 statutory disclosure was 21,192.39 Purchased heat 5.44 20.76 2015: 20,659.07 tCO e. Our significant 2 Electricity Location Based 16,576.71 16,963.50 17,165.98 Scope 3 emissions voluntary disclosure Total Scope 2 tCO e Location Based 16,576.71 16,968.94 17,186.74 2 was 20,684.59 2015: 22,403.09 tCO e. 2 Electricity Market Based 17,416.00 19,619.00 20,104.00 To calculate our GHG emissions, we 5 have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Total Scope 2 tCO e Market Based 17,416.00 19,624.44 20,124.76 2 Accounting and Reporting Standard 2 Total statutory GHG emissions tCO e 21,020.47 20,659.07 21,192.39 2 revised addition, data gathered for 2 our CRC submission and the UK Normalised statutory GHG emissions by revenue tCO e m 59.13 41.76 48.54 Governments GHG reporting guidance 2 as the basis of our methodology and the Scope 3 source of emissions factors.
Our GHG Business travel 6,916.31 4,030.00 5,226.99 emissions are based on actual data taken from bills, invoices, meter readings Product distribution 5,292.98 11,482.33 9,179.69 and expense claims wherever possible.
Raw material purchase 799.72 1,088.41 277.66 For our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, less Post and communications 557.85 598.66 774.00 than 1% of the data is based on estimates 6 WTT and T&D total 4,766.80 5,203.68 5,226.25 from averaged data sets.
Out of scope bio fuel blend 49.97 38.97 53.58 Total significant Scope 3 tCO e 18,333.66 22,403.09 20,684.59 2 Total GHG emissions tCO e 39,354.13 43,062.16 41,876.99 2 4 Normalised total GHG emissions by revenue tCO e m 110.70 87.05 95.92 2 1 2015 figures have been restated due to improvements in our methodology, updated GHG conversion factors and replacing the calculation used for the June 2015 data last year see footnote 3.
2 Statutory emissions are Scope 1 and 2 as required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors' Report Regulations 2013.
3 To facilitate the timely capture of information, this disclosure uses internally reported data from July to May and the June data is given as an average of the previous three months.
This will be restated next year if a significant difference is seen.
4 Total GHG emissions include Scope 1 and 2 statutory and significant Scope 3 voluntarily reported emissions.
5 Market Based electricity is used where it is available to us.
This is currently only within the UK and Europe.
Where Market Based factors are not available Location Based ones are used in their place.
Currently 87% of our electricity consumed is covered by Market Based factors.
6 Well To Tank and Transmission and Distribution losses total use Location Based conversion factors for calculations.
1 Includes US data for the first time which accounts for 87.2 tonnes of landfill waste in 2016.
Landfilled Waste management Product compliance Re-used Composted During the year, we have completed We continue to prepare for the Restriction Incinerated the UK roll-out of our segregation-atof the use of Hazardous Substances Recycled source waste management strategy.
Regulations RoHS, which require This has involved removing personal the majority of our products to be under-desk bins and installing office compliant in 2017.
Our encoder product floor recycling centres across the sites.
range is RoHS compliant, with robust This centralised methodology has design procedures in place to ensure been designed to ensure that as much that all future products are compliant.
waste as feasibly possible is diverted We continue to monitor substances from landfill.
This strategy, which was against those identified as substances of started in February 2014 and proved very high concern under the Registration, to be effective, has continued to drive Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction our efforts throughout the year, resulting of Chemicals Directive.
Whilst we do in a further 2,656.91 2015: 2,246.27: not fall within the remit of the USAs 2014: 1,524.43 tonnes of waste being Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and diverted from landfill.
Approximately 90% Consumer Protection Act, we recognise of all waste generated this year originated that compliance with the conflict minerals from our UK sites which have been assessment and disclosure aspects of recertified to the Carbon Trust Waste such legislation is important to a number Standard.
These sites have been of our customers.
We also recognise we recognised by the Carbon Trust for their should have a supply chain with minimum efforts in moving waste away from landfill risk, that is free of unethical practices.
as a disposal option, towards recovery, As such, we have used our best efforts recycling and re-use.
to mitigate against conflict minerals within our supply chain.
Continual investigations Last year, we set a target of 5% for the in our supply chain are carried out to help reduction of waste to landfill in our UK ensure conflict minerals are not present: operations.
Despite a global rise of waste we are working with a number of key to landfill of 85% we have had a decrease suppliers on this project.
Any issues we from our UK operations of 73%.
We are consider to be against the spirit of our still re-using, recycling or recovering Group Business Code are monitored, around 95% 2015: 96%: 2014: 92% of and we work with suppliers where issues our waste around the world.
The Strategic report was approved by the Board on 27th July 2016 and signed onits behalf by Sir David R McMurtry Chairman and Chief Executive 2,809.13 2,328.42 1,655.97 1,431.37 2016 2014 2015 2013
