40 Corporate Responsibility Our people are our brand As an international services organisation our colleagues, who often work alone on customers sites, are our brand.
They are the experts who represent us, and so it is vital that we attract, develop, inspire and retain talented people who can deliver a great customer experience.
As at 31 December 2016 Rentokil Initial employed 32,150 colleagues Culture 2015: 29,972.
The number of people in our business increased during What is it like to work at Rentokil Initial?
Acrossthe different businesses the year following our 41 acquisitions.
The following sections highlight youll find some common themes and threads that tie usall together.
key aspects of our Employer Value Proposition, which is at the core of Service-led: Firstly, we are a service-led company that strives to meet our people strategy.
our customers needs at all times.
We have an embedded culture of Mission and vision going the extra mile, and were always looking for new ways to do Our mission is to Protect People and Enhance Lives.
We do this in many things better.
Where we find evidence that service is not as good as it ways, such as controlling mosquitoes linked to diseases like dengue should be, we tackle any problems head-on and improve the situation fever, Zika virus and malaria: reducing the spread of germs through asquickly as possible.
more effective hand washing facilities: promoting safer workplaces Expert: Expert professionalism is at the heart of our customer-focused with correctly fitting workwear: and providing colourful planting that approach.
We deliver industry-leading training and invest in better ways enhances work environments and other interior spaces.
We aim to be Right First Time.
Nothing, however, Our vision is to become a world-class services company, protecting is more important than colleague and customer safety.
people and enhancing lives through industry-leading innovation: Pragmatic: Rentokil Initial is a practical, down-to-earth place to work, best-in-class product and service quality, and care for our colleagues, where rules and systems are made clear and where dialogue is customers and communities across the globe.
We will achieve this by encouraged to deliver the best service for our customers.
Our leaders harnessing the heads, hearts and spirit of our highly trained experts to are visible and there is ample opportunity to feed back opinions, become acknowledged as a customer service champion, universally share experiences and help shape our Company.
Welike to recognise recognised for performance excellence and doing it all at pace in the achievements locally.
Ethical: We set high standards of responsible business practice, which Values are clearly set out in our Code of Conduct.
We believe in being a Our values make us the company we are.
Weasked our colleagues company that delivers great results and does itthe RIGHT WAY, treating what should be ourcore values and they outlined the three they believe colleagues, customers, suppliers and local communities with respect characterise Rentokil Initial: and honesty.
Service Diverse: We are a diverse organisation, and want to extend this even Throughout the Company there is a very strong focus on delivering further, as we believe that being diverse and inclusive is not only outstanding customer service.
the right thing to do, but also supports business performance, by Relationships encouraging talented people to join the Company, increasing idea Building meaningful relationships with our customers, with generation and innovation and ultimately delivering improved results.
colleagues in other parts of the Company, and with our suppliers Innovative: We have a commitment to scientific advancement and andother stakeholders.
innovation that sets us apart from the competition.
We also have a Teamwork strong pipeline of innovation and digitally-connected products.
We work We believe great things can be achieved through teamwork, respect with Google and other innovative companies to maintain this leadership and support.
Welook to collaborate across the organisation so we position and operate at the forefront of our industries.
can leverage our collective strength and ideas.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 41 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Responsibility Learning and development Rentokil Initial offers a wide range of learning and development programmes to enhance the skills of our colleagues.
U is our in-house learning and development university.
It delivers programmes through various channels, including online courses via the U portal: as well as face to face and team-based programmes.
Over 300 courses and videos are added each year by our in-house team around topics such as sales, technical and operational best practice.
The U team has won awards for Best Learning Implementation and Best Learning Team at the eLearning Awards and for the Best Use of Technology in Learning at the prestigious global Training Journal Awards.
Over the last five years our Graduate scheme, which covers general, finance and functional management roles, has recruited 200 people and is an example of our training capability.
In addition, our UK operations deliver around 3,000 days of technical training in pest control, property care and hygiene services each year.
Our apprenticeships provide opportunities for young people to get their career started.
We work with leading apprenticeship providers to ensure our apprentices enjoy a great combination of on the job work experience and the opportunity to train for qualifications.
In 2016 one ofour apprentices won the Regional Apprentice of the Year award and was shortlisted in the National Apprentice of the Year awards.
Overall, our talent model is driven by our succession plans so we can ensure that we have a strong pipeline of talent to fill key roles, now and in the future, supporting the delivery of our business strategy.
Developing our futureleaders At Rentokil Initial we seek to appoint managers and leaders who are able to navigate complexity, meet performance targets, and engage and lead our people.
Ourmanagement development programmes are wideranging.
These include: Recognising performance Our global and regional talent pools which focus on understanding Our reward philosophy is centred upon rewarding people based on their each individuals development needs and building a bespoke performance and contribution to our overall success of the organisation.
blueprint for their development towards the next level role, through As an example, Hygiene service representatives in the UK are offered interventions at a pool, sub-pool and on an individual basis.
atotal rewards package including salary, the Together Service Incentive and commission for Sales Leads introductions from existing customers Living Leadership to address the needs of experienced managers worth up to 1,440 a year based on the quality of customer service worldwide.
It lasts six months and aims to deepen their knowledge of and sales opportunities spotted.
This ensures that variable pay is the skills, knowledge and behaviours required to lead in The RI Way.
demonstrably linked to both Company and individual performance.
At a management level below, we have introduced the Managing the RI Way programme which is designed to provide supervisors and See pages 109 to 113 in the Notes to the Financial Statements for details team leaders with role-specific knowledge and help them develop of our pension provisions and our global long-term incentive plans.
Integrating acquisitions Entrepreneurial Leadership uses Rentokil Initials own business case When we acquire a company we look to introduce all new employees studies to ensure more pragmatic learning.
to Rentokil Initial and our values, as well as our standards for safety, The Relational Leadership programme is designed to help managers behaviour and service.
develop coaching skills and to more broadly improve their capability across a range of necessary leadership conversations.
Code of Conduct The Leader in Me programme aims to help managers to focus on In 2016 we updated and communicated our Code of Conduct that sets personal changes in their leadership style.
Team Dimensions helps out our business principles and what we expect from colleagues to managers understand what it takes to set up a team to attain success ensure they protect themselves as well asthe Companys reputation and to sustain optimised performance.
Wecommunicate these to new employees through our U induction programme, which covers policies in many areas such ashealth and safety, anti-bribery, IT security and competition law.
Britains Most Admired Companies In 2016 Rentokil Initial was voted Britains 25th most admired company in the annual Management Today Most Admired Companies listing the Our Code of Conduct can be found on Company rose 133 places in one year.
com responsible-delivery code-of-conduct Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 42 Corporate Responsibility Our sustainable business At Rentokil Initial, our mission is to Protect People and Enhance Lives.
Theservices we provide such as pest control and hygiene can be transformative to peoples lives and business success, protecting public health and organisations reputation, enabling safer food and medicines as well as more hygienic and enhanced restaurants, shops, offices and other workplaces or homes.
The Chief Executive is responsible for Corporate Responsibility and As a company with a global footprint and large diverse employee has committed the Company to operate responsibly in line with its base we take our corporate responsibilities seriously and seek to Code of Conduct, which was updated in 2016 and is reinforced on an operate sustainably.
Acknowledgements of the Companys corporate annual basis with online training.
The Company has a robust policy responsibility performance include accreditation in the Dow Jones framework including health and safety, environment, diversity and equal Sustainability World Index, the STOXX Global ESG Leaders index, opportunities, human rights and rights of employees, customers, and the Carbon Disclosure Project, the FTSE4Good Index and the Ethibel supply chain which can be found on the Companys website, monitored Sustainability Index Excellence Europe.
In addition, in 2016 Rentokil by internal audit and supported by colleague training and a confidential Initial was voted Britains 25th Most Admired Company, an improvement Speak Up reporting system.
There is an annual Letter of Assurance, of 133 places in one year.
required to be signed by all senior management to confirm they comply personally with key corporate policies and the Code of Conduct, and During the year the Company paid wages and salaries of 892.0m that the colleagues for whom they are responsible are aware of and 2015:680.5m and the total cash tax paid was 35.8m 2015: 27.9m understand what is required of them.
The Companys Modern Slavery on the reported profit before tax of 208.5m 2015: 159.0m.
The Statement can be found on the Companys website.
Company also paid employer social security contributions on employee salaries of 129.0m 2015: 119.4m.
Further details are contained in the Our corporate responsibility actions focus on social and environmental Notes to the Financial Statements on page 108. contributions.
This report highlights our progress in six key areas: health and safety, sustainable products, employee engagement, supply chain, reducing environmental impacts and supporting our communities.
Lost time accident LTA performance and our key global safety initiatives LTA 2.30 LTA 0.62 2009 2011 2013 2015 Safety built into core values.
Minimum standards for core Programme to improve SHE Golden Rules processes e. g. incident workplace transport safety.
Global LTA and WDL metrics management.
Chief Executive SHE Awards Innovative online training SHE goals incorporated into first introduced.
2010 2012 2014 2016 Minimum standards for work SHE Health-Check audits Improved site risk assessment Driving at Work minimum at height.
Safety, health & environment In Focus initiatives first Improved working practices Focus on improved near miss SHE leadership team introduced.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 43 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Responsibility Colleagues skills development is delivered through two primary Health and safety resources: the Technical Academy and U online.
The Technical Health and safety performance continues to make strong progress, 1 Academy delivers accredited training to service colleagues and U is with Lost Time Accidents LTA improving by 19% down from 0.77 to 2 the in-house learning and development university.
In 2016 colleagues 0.62, vs 0.69 target and Working Days Lost WDL improving by 20% completed over 300,000 items of online training and development, down from 19.02 to 15.31, vs 17.05 target.
Since 2012, the LTA rate has and over 300 courses and videos were created in-house around topics improved by 55.7%, and the WDL rate has improved by 53.5%.
The chart such as sales, technical and operations for our business categories.
on page 42 shows the strategy that has helped to deliver this significant TheU team, having won the awards for Best Learning Implementation improvement.
and Best Learning Team at the 2015 eLearning Awards, continued to In 2016 the Company completed the global roll-out of its SHE Golden receive acclaim with the award for Best Use of Technology in Learning Rules for health and safety.
These are designed to foster a Companyaward at the 2016 Training Journal Awards.
wide safety culture and are focused on our nine primary operational Sales and service colleague retention improved by 1.4% and 2.9% risks and setting consistent global standards.
Regrettably there were four fatalities in 2016.
Three were pedestrians The Company operates active apprenticeship and graduate involved in road traffic accidents with the Companys service vehicles programmes, and also a recruitment programme amongst the ex-military.
and the fourth was a trespasser who gained access illegally to a building Over the last five years, the graduate scheme which covers general, that was in the process of being fumigated and died after exposure finance and functional management roles has recruited 200 graduates.
In addition, a North American colleague involved in a road traffic accident in 2015 tragically died of her injuries in 2016.
To maintain colleagues focus on safe driving practices, the Company has successfully implemented new Driving at Work minimum standards to strengthen driver and vehicle management.
In support of these standards, a suite of new online learning resources were developed to support existing local driver training programmes.
In 2017, we will focus on safety leadership behaviours for frontline and first level managers.
Sustainable products Rentokil Initials innovation pipeline remains strong and during 2016 further sustainable products were developed for launch in 2017.
RapidPro is a new rodenticide that is made of the fastest acting bait targeting mice and through extensive research and testing by our rodent behaviour specialists and biologists, the Company has achieved the optimum formulation for palatability.
Not only is this highly effective, but as an alternative to traditional Anti-Vitamin K AVK rodenticides, this product does not risk secondary poisoning of non-target species.
Lumnia is a new range of fly killers that use LED lighting rather than traditional blue-light fluorescent tubes allowing for power use reductions of 50 - 60% versus comparable units.
This is the worlds first commercial range using LEDs and comes as a result of working in partnership with a leading manufacturer of LED lighting to develop a lamp specifically designed to target a broad range of flying insects.
In addition to the energy cost benefits of using LEDs, the unit has different lighting settings to suit the specific requirements of a customer location with an active lighting mode that adapts its output according to the ambient lighting levels on customers premises.
Rentokil Initial continues to extend its PestConnect range that continuously monitors for pest activity and automatically alerts the technician when a pest has been detected or contained.
This ensures afaster response to emerging issues and so reduces the need for more Case study significant intervention and helps technician productivity, reducing the Malaria No More need to drive to customers premises.
This was the winner of the 2016 Rentokil initial has actively supported the charity Malaria No More Best Internet of Things Innovation at the UK IT Awards, organised by the forfive years, and in 2016 passed the landmark of having raised over Chartered Institute for IT.
Colleagues have found many fun ways to continue fund Employee engagement raising efforts.
Rentokil Initial is committed to workplace best practices, based on In 2016 speakers at the UK & Rest of World region conference equal opportunities for colleagues irrespective of age, race, gender, appeared on stage wearing onesies in exchange for donations and colour, sexual orientation, disability or marital status.
To deliver our 19 colleagues raised 11,000 by cycling from our UK Head Office to strategy we need our employees to be engaged and motivated and we Paris.
Other colleagues undertook bungee jumping at the Verzasca have identified that the key drivers of colleague engagement are skill Dam in Switzerland, the London to Brighton bike ride and the Tough development and personal development opportunities.
On joining the Mudder challenge.
Company new colleagues are given a copy of the employee handbook and policies.
Induction training, including the Code of Conduct, is undertaken on our U training system.
Every two years the Company undertakes a major survey called Your Voice Counts, giving every colleague the opportunity to feedback views on a wide range of topics from leadership to policies and training.
An LTA is defined as a work-related injury or work-related illness to an employee which results in them being absent from work for one day shift or more excludes the day of the accident.
The WDL rate is calculated as the number of working days that employees could not work because of lost time accidents injuries and illnesses per 100,000 hours worked.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 44 Corporate Responsibility The Company also reports on fugitive sulfuryl fluoride gas emissions.
The gas is used to fumigate large buildings.
Absolute emissions derived from the use of sulfuryl fluoride were 720,322 tonnes 2015: 612,310 tonnes.
Currently, there is no suitable regulator-approved fumigation alternative to sulfuryl fluoride.
Following the successful achievement of the Companys emissions target, which was set in 2011, for a 10% reduction in emissions derived from property energy and vehicle fuel, the Board has set a new emissions target, representing a 20% reduction in emissions by the end of 2020, from a baseline of 2015, based on the Companys index ofemissions normalised against revenues at constant exchange rates.
Absolute value of principal energy derived emissions.
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Type of scope tCO2e tCO2e tCO2e tCO2e tCO2e Total scope 1 176,698 173,896 180,660 181,249 177,665 Total scope 2 20,415 21,736 23,721 24,389 26,832 In 2016 the Company introduced a new diversity and inclusion strategy because it believes that greater gender, racial and ethnic diversity will Total scope 3 35,618 34,821 35,656 35,828 34,850 ultimately lead to stronger business performance and foster competitive advantage.
Women represent approximately 11,250 or 35% of our Total outside scope 3,581 3,353 3,297 3,288 3,025 32,150 colleagues based on a survey of our largest 10 countries which Total 236,312 233,806 243,334 244,754 242,372 represent around 70% of employees and 25% of Board members two out of eight.
Rentokil Initial has four women on the Senior Leadership Total emissions intensity Forum out of 26 in total.
To achieve these performance benefits, tonnes per m revenue diversity and inclusion is now a theme in all Leadership Development at CER 120 135 145 141 148 and Talent Pool Programmes and the U Induction Module.
Female colleagues who are seen as key talent are receiving coaching to build both skills and confidence, and the executive and senior leadership Supporting our communities teams are engaging in diversity and inclusion up-skilling.
Further Our colleagues enthusiastically support local and national charities, and information on diversity and succession planning can also be found the Company strives to build on this to enable multiple good causes inthe Nomination Committee Report on pages 68 and 69. to be supported.
Rentokil Initials charitable cash donations amounted Supply chain to 171,000 in 2016 2015: 128,000.
Our approach is to provide local community support and investment at a country or regional level: global The Company continues to develop a supply chain based upon community support with long-term support for specific charities: and partnership and responsibility, and its Supplier Standard sets out its support responses to national disasters in affected communities, where expectations of suppliers.
The Supplier Standard covers all Companycolleagues and their families live.
wide procurement managed by the Group Procurement Team, and is being phased in by local operations.
All suppliers are audited based on a risk assessment, and Workwear fabric suppliers are selected only if they meet international environmental, social and governance standards, such a Fibre Citoyenne and WethicA.
There are also supply chain-related policies, including the Anti-Corruption, Dignity at Work and Human Rights policies.
All supply chain contracts include antibribery and corruption clauses.
The Company has published its Modern Slavery statement on its website in accordance with the requirements of the UKs Modern Slavery Act 2015.
This statement covers policies, contractual practices and due diligence processes undertaken in its UK supply chain management.
Reducing environmental impacts Rentokil Initial has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 10.7% in 2016.
This continues a five-year trend of improvement, through the use of technology, operational efficiency intiatives and developing a culture of responsible behaviour.
The Company reports on tonnes of CO 2 equivalent tCO e using 2016 DEFRA conversion factors for fuels, gases 2 and UK electricity, and International Energy Agency conversion factors Case study for non-UK electricity generation.
Since 2012 the Company has reduced Community Health Education its greenhouse gas emissions by 18.7%.
Rentokil Initials Better Futures programme has developed Rentokil Initials main emission sources are its vehicle fleet and European community projects in India, Malaysia, Indonesia and South Africa.
Since 2012, the plants have delivered improvements The programme delivers basic health education focusing on the of 15.9% in energy efficiency and 20% in water consumption.
With a importance of good hygiene practices.
Since its launch in 2013, large global vehicle fleet, vehicle emissions represented 70% of energy over 12,500 people have participated in these education events derived emissions in 2016.
To improve vehicle efficiency, programmes supported by volunteer colleagues from local branches.
including route optimisation, engine control unit mapping, vehicle ecoselection, driver telemetry and training have been introduced.
Find out more in the Companys Corporate Responsibility Report, available at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 45 Corporate Governance Section features 54 55 Read about our Board activities 56 Read about our performance evaluation 57 58 Read about our governance framework Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
