Strategic report | Corporate responsibility Our people Beyond induction, Rightmove is committed to investing in Our people are our most valued asset, they are vital to our employees through extensive training and leadership Rightmoves success and growth and we are proud of the programmes that are designed to equip them with the mixture of talent and experience they bring.
Our open and necessary skills to perform to the best of their ability and honest cultural style comes from our people and the provide the best possible service to our customers and environment we have created together.
We strive to make consumers.
Rightmove a great place to work and this enables us to We have also developed a suite of internal development attract and retain the best talent and provide the best courses for our employees covering both technical and service for both our customers and consumers.
non-technical skills to further invest in our people and in Recruitment recognition of the benefit in providing continual professional Recruiting the right talent continues to be an important and personal development for Rightmovers.
In 2016, a new part of our ability to drive growth.
The tightening job set of customer-focused training was rolled out, including market, particularly in technology skills makes our working how to communicate effectively by email and telephone.
environment and benefits ever more important in attracting Employee benefits the right people.
Whilst we believe that being a great place to work helps us Referrals from existing employees are a valuable source of attract the best talent we also reward our employees with a new recruits, typically ensuring a higher quality candidate range of additional benefits.
All new vacancies are communicated Rightmove contributes towards a group stakeholder pension internally to give our colleagues an opportunity to apply or plan.
Opt out rates continue to be low and currently 90% of recommend someone.
In 2016 10% of new employees were employees are members of the pension plan.
We also offer introduced to Rightmove by an existing employee.
private healthcare complemented by a cash plan scheme for We continued our successful partnership with MK College all employees.
and the University of Bedford which offers paid internships to We want our people to directly benefit from their contribution design students for up to six months and provides graduates to the success of Rightmove.
All employees can join the with valuable work experience in marketing or design.
Five Groups Save As You Earn Scheme Sharesave, which allows out of six interns who joined us in 2015 became permanent employees to save money from their salary with the option employees during the year and a further four interns joined to purchase shares at a discount after three years.
In Rightmove in 2016, of whom two are now permanent.
Our November 2016, the Groups eighth Sharesave contract intern programme will continue to run in 2017 and so far we matured allowing employees to benefit from the continued have eight new interns including three from our involvement success of the Group over the last three years.
66% of our with the Princes Trust, details of which can be found in the employees currently participate in Sharesave.
charitable activities section on page 25.
Following the launch of the Rightmove Share Incentive Plan The high quality of our recruiting, supported by long-term SIP and initial award of shares in 2015, in January 2016 we commitment from Rightmove employees is key to the made a further free share award of 50 shares to all qualifying success of our culture.
We are proud to have 51 people who employees.
We have also made a free share award of 50 have celebrated ten or more years service, which represents shares to all qualifying employees in January 2017. over 10% of our employees and which we believe backs up our impressive people survey results.
We also offer flexible working arrangements, supporting part time working and reduced hours to allow our employees to People development and training balance their work and family commitments.
To support our culture of highly connected and empowered employees every new employee attends two office based Engagement How Rightmove fits together days to introduce them to the We encourage employees involvement and place emphasis business and our customers.
They also attend Nexton an on keeping employees informed of the Groups activities off-site residential experience to introduce employees to through townhalls and business performance updates with our culture and values.
senior management and quarterly sales conferences.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our employee recognition scheme is based around the As at 31 December 2016, our female representation on the Rightmove behaviours, which reflect our unique blend of Board was 33% with three out of nine Board directors being values and ways of working.
It is an opportunity to nominate female.
Following the retirement of Colin Kemp and Nick colleagues who have demonstrated these behaviours in action McKittrick in May 2017, this will rise to 43% with 50:50 and during 2016 it continued to prove popular with up to eight representation at executive director level.
awards presented every two months at our townhalls.
The Board continues to focus on the next level of senior As it is important to know what our employees think, and management in order to develop potential within this team having received much valuable feedback in the past, we to step up to Board level at the appropriate time.
It is also conduct an annual Have your Say people survey.
We are important to identify and develop potential within the wider proud of another set of outstanding results from the survey organisation with a view to strengthening the female with highlights including: representation within the senior management team.
90% of respondents think that Rightmove is run on In 2016, 18% 2015: 24% of our senior management team strong values and principles: were female.
Rightmove has a small senior management 95% of respondents think this is a great place to work team and therefore the loss of just one female manager and are proud to work for Rightmove: and can have a big impact on female representation in this group.
97% of respondents are committed to making a real We are proud that the rest of our workforce now equally contribution to the success of Rightmove.
Despite the outstanding results, the management team is A breakdown by gender of the number of persons who never complacent and works hard to improve the employee were directors of Rightmove, senior managers and all other experience at Rightmove.
An employee engagement score employees as at 31 December 2016, is set out below.
will again form part of the senior management bonus criteria Human rights in 2017, demonstrating the importance of employees to the Whilst Rightmove does not have a specific human rights continuing success of Rightmove.
policy, it does have policies covering Equal Opportunities, Equality and diversity Anti-slavery and Anti-bribery that adhere to internationally Rightmove has a firm commitment to equality of proclaimed human rights principles.
There is also a gifts and opportunity in all our employment policies, practices and hospitality policy and an online register to record all gifts procedures.
Our recruitment and selection processes are and hospitality that are accepted by employees.
This register geared to selecting the best candidate regardless of their is reviewed by the Audit Committee annually.
age, gender, sexuality, full or part-time status, disability and Charitable activity marital status.
We continue to encourage all our employees to devote time We recognise that a diverse workforce will provide a wide and fundraising efforts to charitable causes that are of range of perspectives that promotes innovation and particular importance to them as individuals.
Drawing on what is unique about many of our staff have been active in raising money or individuals adds value to the way we do business and helps us supporting fundraising activities across a wide range of anticipate and provide what our customers want from us and charities for which Rightmove matches the donations raised.
what the home hunters want from the Rightmove platforms.
Directors Senior management All Rightmove employees 3 3 229 229 6 14 Male Female Male Female Male Female Rightmove plc annual report 2016 25 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility continued In 2016 we contributed 18,000 to UK charities through The Rightmove platforms include functionality for our matched funding.
Our employees are also able to donate customers to display Energy Performance Certificates which directly from their monthly salary to any charity or allow prospective buyers to evaluate the energy efficiency recognised good cause registered within the UK through the of a property they are considering buying and to identify Charities Trust.
This provides a tax efficient means of giving.
opportunities to improve the energy efficiency once they have purchased the property.
In 2016, we contributed 49,000 to support customer initiatives via Agents Giving, where we contribute to the costs As an internet-based Group with most staff employed in two of setting up a charitable activity carried out by our customers, office locations, we believe our own environmental footprint for example paying for the kit to be used by participants in a is small.
We encourage our staff to take steps to address our charity run or cycling event.
This allows for more of the money environmental responsibilities.
For instance, we continue raised by our customers to go directly to the charity through a to operate recycling schemes which were established in charitable sponsorship fund we set up with Agents Giving in consultation with local authorities and recycling partners.
We were delighted that during 2016, Agents Giving All waste bins were removed from the desks in our London achieved the milestone of raising over 1 million for a number and Milton Keynes offices which encourages and increases of charitable initiatives supported by our customers.
the amount of recycling we do.
In November 2016, we invited ten young people from the As an operator of an online property portal, the main Princes Trust to attend four weeks work experience at environmental impact is the power usage of our data Rightmove to learn about the business and the career centres.
Our procurement policy is to purchase hardware opportunities on offer.
The experience was very rewarding with the best computational performance which uses the for the young people who enjoyed the lively family least electrical power.
atmosphere and for the many Rightmovers who were We encourage our employees to use alternatives to car involved in organising and delivering the work experience.
travel, by promoting the use of public transport in particular The collaboration has resulted in three young individuals when travelling between our two office locations and by being offered a three-month internship within Rightmove.
encouraging participation in our Cycle to Work scheme.
During the year Rightmove contributed 25,000 to the In 2016, we also introduced the option for staff entitled to a Princes Trust.
company car to select hybrid electric cars as an alternative Environment to petrol or diesel engines.
Rightmove actively considers its environmental impact and In 2016, our fuel card provider, Allstar, again partnered with we are conscious of playing our part in tackling climate Forest Carbon to capture the CO2 emissions from our fleet change.
Rightmove reduces the need for print media and the of company cars and turn it into new UK woodlands, under environmental damage that goes with it.
Rightmove takes the Allstar Ecopoint scheme.
We pay an amount per month care to design the layout of property particulars to reduce the per car to capture the CO2 from each vehicle and with that total number of pages that need to be printed out in those Forest Carbon plant woodlands that are quality assured by cases where a home hunter does want a physical copy.
the Governments Woodland Carbon Code to offset Enhanced information on properties also reduces the the emissions from each vehicle.
We are provided with an amount of time home hunters waste in visiting properties e-certificate annually which shows us how many trees have that rapidly turn out to be inappropriate.
As a high proportion been planted for us, as well as their location and how much of viewings involve a car journey, any reduction in wasted CO2 they are expected to capture.
viewings has an environmental benefit.
Rightmove has As an online business, our culture emphasises a paperless worked hard to increase the number and size of photographs environment.
We also recognise that our responsibilities of each property, improved the size and added functionality do not stop with how we operate internally: we encourage to property floor plans and has introduced more all our customers, business partners and suppliers not to comprehensive map searches and aerial photographs unnecessarily print out emails sent by us in the signature which help home hunters to identify the specific location of all our emails.
We also continue to focus on streamlining of a property.
Rightmove has added information on which processes and replacing paper-based services with online schools are closest to the properties listed and the services and communications, wherever possible.
Steps broadband speed for the area, all of which combined, introduced in recent years include e-communications to provides high quality information about properties, to shareholders and online customer membership forms and reduce the carbon footprint generated by prospective product documentation.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Greenhouse gas reporting Emissions per Employee The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 1 1 per employee per employee Report Regulations 2013 requires all UK quoted companies Scope Source 2016 2015 to report on their greenhouse gas GHG emissions, which are classified as either direct or indirect and which are divided Scope 1 Company cars 1.0 1.2 further into Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
Scope 2 Electricity 0.7 0.8 Direct GHG emissions are emissions from sources that are Scope 3 Outsourced data centres 0.7 0.6 owned or controlled by Rightmove.
Indirect GHG emissions Total 2.4 2.6 are emissions that are a consequence of the activities of the 1 Based on 469 2015: 412 employees taken as the average number of Group but that occur at sources owned or controlled by employees in the Group throughout the year.
Emissions per employee have declined year on year due Scope 1 emissions: Direct emissions controlled by the to an increase in headcount in areas which have not had Group arising from Company cars.
Whilst the cars are leased, a proportionate impact on emissions, such as the use we are responsible for the emissions and therefore we report of company cars or running the outsourced data centres.
We will continue to monitor and look for ways to improve Scope 2 emissions: Indirect emissions attributable to the energy efficiency.
Group due to its consumption of purchased electricity.
Methodology Scope 3 emissions: Other indirect emissions associated We have reported on all of the emission sources required with activities that support or supply the Groups operations, under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and we include emissions arising from our third party run Directors Report Regulations 2013.
We have used the data centres.
GHGs Protocols Operational Control consolidation method.
We do not have responsibility for any emission The Group is required to report Scope 1 and 2 emissions for sources that are not included in the above information.
its reporting year to 31 December 2016.
Scope 3 is not yet mandatory, however the Group has again chosen to report Health and safety Scope 3 emissions as it relates to electricity used in data The Group considers the effective management of health centres, in which the Group rents space to house and and safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
operate various servers, which host our website platforms.
During 2016, we continued our fire safety, first aid and work place safety training.
The Groups ongoing policy on health Rightmove emissions by scope: and safety is to provide adequate control of the health and 1 1 Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 safety risks arising from work activities.
This is delivered Scope Source 2016 2015 through further consultation with, and training of, Scope 1 Company cars 486 492 employees, the provision and maintenance of plant and Scope 2 Electricity 323 342 equipment, safe handling and use of all substances and the prevention of accidents and causes of ill health.
Scope 3 Outsourced data centres 298 221 Total 1,107 1,055 1 UK emissions factors have been used for all data.
All emission factors have been selected from the emissions conversion factors published annually by Defra.
The increase in emissions from our outsourced data centres was due to a new, larger facility coming online during the year.
Emissions have also been calculated using an intensity metric, which will enable the Group to monitor how well we are controlling emissions on an annual basis, independent of fluctuations in the levels of their activity.
As Rightmove is a people business, the most suitable metric is Emissions per Employee, based on the average number of employees during the year.
The Groups emissions per employee are shown in the next table.
