STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Market environment implications for borrowing and credit.
Higher Price increases for industrial metals were less Global economy rates pushed the dollar up against other dramatic.
Copper prices dipped below , globalGDPgrowth currencies, a negative signal for commodity US$2 pound in early 2016 before rising underperformed the long-term average, prices.
Finally, the re-emergence of inflation in 25 per cent by year-end.
Over one million expanding at approximately three per cent in the US, Europe and China supports tonnes of new mine supply entered the market, 2016, yet still exceeded initial expectations.
expectations of further increases in US and was accommodated through demand benchmark rates.
growth, lower scrap availability and At the start of the year, concerns over a second mine curtailments.
wave of collapsing oil prices, negative interest Drivers of commodity prices rates in Japan and Europe, the possibility of a Aluminium prices started 2016 below hard landing in China and revived expectations Long-term structural economic trends are US$1,500 tonne and ended the year about of a US recession pushed market expectations important drivers of commodity prices through 15 per cent higher.
Margins remained under down sharply.
In the first few months the S&P their effects on demand.
The economic pressure, however, as higher energy and 500 fell by more than ten per cent from its development and urbanisation of emerging alumina costs offset the price increase.
The 2015 close and commodity prices hit countries goes through an initial alumina price rallied from less than fresh lows.
investment-led growth phase, which benefits US$200 tonne to US$350 tonne as refinery commodities such as steel and copper used in curtailments caught up with the ten per cent Meanwhile, an expansion was taking shape in construction and infrastructure.
As economies cutback of global smelting capacity announced China as new fiscal support was released in evolve, other commodities such as light metals, in 2015.
Bauxite did not match these increases, tandem with relaxed housing purchase and energy products and industrial minerals tend to with the average Chinese import price falling mortgage restrictions.
The resulting property take over as the main enablers of moderately to just under US$50 tonne as new market surge reversed the deflationary consumption-led growth.
supply from Guinea, Australia and Brazil conditions of the previous two years.
By replaced volumes lost to Malaysias export ban.
mid-2016, job growth, rising real incomes and The long-term nature of mining tends to result higher corporate earnings in the US were in cyclical investment patterns, translating into Outlook supporting a modest improvement in economic commodity price cyclicality.
Europe and Japans economic three years, the industry moved into the low The global economy starts 2017 with improved performance also picked up, while the phase of the cycle.
Investments made during manufacturing conditions but also evidence downturn in many emerging markets appeared  that cost pressures and tighter credit to bottom out.
This levelling-off set the stage have started to deliver new supply, into a conditions in the US, the UK and China are for a sustained pick-up in commodity prices context of decelerating Chinese demand.
With affecting corporate profit growth.
It also provided room for the markets for most metals and minerals moving economy has gained momentum, though the Federal Reserve Bank to raise the benchmark into oversupply, the industry has shifted from pick-up in household consumption remains rate later in the year and allowed a prolonged capital investment toward strategies focused very weak and is vulnerable to inflation.
strengthening of the US dollar.
on strengthening balance sheets through Meanwhile, Japan should benefit from a productivity and cost reduction initiatives.
China is facing Chinas economic performance beat consensus the wind-down of its short-term property cycle expectations, with full year growth of Commodity markets and renewed policy calls to constrain credit 6.7 per cent.
The end of deflation allowed growth and push through heavy industry Most commodity prices increased for the first Chinese industrial profits to improve restructuring and capacity reduction.
At the time in a number of years in 2016, despite substantially, though production growth same time, the Chinese government is working numerous political and macro shocks to the remained relatively weak.
Improved balance hard to keep growth relatively stable ahead of global economy.
sheets provided some support to investment the 2017 mid-term leadership transition, with growth though it remains below trend.
While  growth this year likely to be only slightly consumer price inflation remained modest US$40 dry metric tonne CFR cost and freight weaker.
The stronger dollar, higher interest during 2016, surging commodity prices, and ended the year around US$80.
Following a rates and inflation will constrain the pace of US particularly oil, drove a substantial reflation in weak start, Chinas crude steel production recovery.
However, should the new US producer prices.
The short-term property cycle increased in the second half of the year by Administration follow through with fiscal appeared to have peaked by October.
Even so, nearly four per cent compared with 2015.
This expansion, there is potential for higher US completion of projects under construction helped absorb new iron ore supply from Roy growth later in the year.
Further strengthening prevented a sudden downward correction, and HillandMinasRio.
Theimproveddemandwas of the dollar and higher interest rates and the market has moved into a more underpinned by an increased appetite for inflation could ensue for the global economy.
Chinese steel demand as Chinas government Overall, the reflationary conditions that expanded lending, eased monetary policy and After signs of weakening momentum in the dominated global commodity markets in 2016 supported the property sector.
China also third quarter, the global economy finished may be reaching their limits, though positive eliminated inefficient steelmaking capacity, 2016 with improved manufacturing and sentiment and further steel and coal capacity supporting steel prices and profitability.
The new US cuts in China may provide further support.
administrations plans for fiscal stimulus, Hard coking coal prices almost quadrupled to Consensus now points to moderate downside corporate tax reform and reduced regulation US$310 tonne from January to November.
risk for commodity prices in the short to also helped to buoy market sentiment at Healthy Chinese steel demand contributed to medium run.
This context continues to favour year-end.
Europe also enjoyed a modest thespike,  producers at the lower end of the cost curve improvement in demand, though banking supply curtailment through the and those that can improve productivity.
sector issues continue to constrain recovery.
implementation of the 276 Directive, Longer-term demand prospects remain Though negative rates persist in Japan, restricting coal mines to operating 276 days of positive.
The attractiveness of growth inflation and growth appear to have improved the year.
The thermal coal market was also opportunities in some commodities is amplified following fiscal stimulus measures.
affected, with prices more than doubling to by stronger mine depletion resulting from US$110 tonne FOB free on board Newcastle.
Despite the apparent improvement, other recent cutbacks in capital expenditure.
increase in the US benchmark rate drove up Treasury bond yields, with negative 2016 Annual report riotinto.
