Sustainable development Producing minerals and metals is vital for , The way Our materiality ranking scheme comprises sustaining and growing social wellbeing.
It is we work,  three tiers: essential for human progress.
Our activities can our people, consistent with Rio Tintos values: Highly material aspects that are core to our affect people, communities and the safety, teamwork, respect, integrity and sustainability performance, to our business environment.
We work in partnership with excellence.
Together our code of conduct and and stakeholders.
These aspects are those affected to share the wealth and benefits our values are the foundation of our business.
described in this Annual report.
our business creates and to minimise Our Sustainability Committee ensures our Material aspects that could have localised negative impacts.
approach is consistent with Rio Tintos vision or moderate impacts on our overall Rio Tintos contribution to sustainable and values, that material risks both local and sustainability performance and to development underpins our ongoing global are managed effectively, and that our stakeholders.
These aspects are described commercial results.
It benefits our activities contribute to sustainable in our Sustainable development report.
Further information on this Other issues considered important across communities, suppliers, customers, employees committee can be found on page 61 of the .
Performance overview We recognise that we can always improve, and A summary of our 2016 performance follows.
Tragically, one colleague lost his life while work in partnership to find smarter ways of Greater detail, including disclosure of working at the Paraburdoo iron ore operation in operating.
 performance metrics and the materiality 2016.
This incident reinforces the importance our business and industry, seeking innovative assessment, is contained in our 2016 of strong safety standards, procedures and  Sustainable development report, available at leadership.
Our ongoing reduction in the impacts.
We participate in industry riotinto.
com sd2016 number of work-related injuries gives us organisations such as the International Council Materiality confidence that our safety processes and on Mining & Metals ICMM, and global culture are strong.
Furthermore, by continuing initiatives such as the Extractive Industries Every year we rank the sustainability issues to implement critical risk management CRM, Transparency Initiative and B20 taskforces and that matter most to our business and eliminating fatalities is achievable.
summits which support the work of the G20, to stakeholders.
 help drive change and set sustainability and aligns our report with the Global Reporting Our performance is assessed globally by standards that reflect societal expectations and Initiative GRI G4 Guidelines.
In 2016, Rio Tinto has again challenges.
We also work in partnership with been recognised by the Dow Jones In 2016, to compile this ranking, we combined non-government organisations to help us Sustainability Index Metals & Mining feedback from our internal subject matter better understand and meet the needs Sustainability Leaders group and the experts and discipline leaders, stakeholder of stakeholders.
expectations and analysis of the external environment.
The Sustainability Committee reviewed and approved the assessment.
Materiality ranking Highly material Material aspects Economic contributions reported in the Safety Annual report Communities Employee relations Operational environment performance Water Health Climate change Human rights Material aspects Non-managed operations reported in the Tailings and structures Sustainable Business integrity development report Assurance Closure Material Value chain Business resilience Aspects addressed Biodiversity through other communications Important Waste Air Important Material Highly material Importance to our business 24 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report Importance to our stakeholders Important Material Highly material STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS We aim to improve our performance each year.
Achieving an Elevate Reconciliation Action At 19.2 per cent, we fell just short of our target Some highlights and examples of our progress Plan RAP, the highest possible phase in for 20 per cent of women in senior in 2016 included: Reconciliation Australias RAP programme.
management positions and we did not meet  Publishing the Why agreements matter Rolling out the CRM programme across reporting of new cases of occupational illness best practice guide and our Know your more than 60 operational sites, resulting in the rate increased by 36 per cent from 2015. supplier procedure.
Actions to address these shortfalls are covered Developing our first modern slavery At 0.44 our all injury frequency rate AIFR later in the report.
statement in compliance with the UK  Modern Slavery Act 2015 and our new Our employee engagement score was lower in 2015, the lowest rate in our company climate change report.
than we would have liked but provides hard history, and we recorded 14 fewer lost time Reviewing our water management data for us to improve our leadership and injuries than in 2015. practices, opportunities and obligations to provides direction for our 2017 initiatives in 25.9 per cent reduction in our greenhouse ensure responsible oversight of that area.
gas emissions intensity from 2008 a this resource.
seven per cent improvement from 2015.
We reported one significant environmental A seven per cent improvement in managed Meeting our 2016 target of graduate gender incident.
There was an alleged breach of operations on track to meet their local diversity and intake of nationals from Warkworth Mining Limiteds Environmental water performance targets by 2018. regions where we are developing Protection Licence conditions in relation to the Implementing a number of updated new businesses.
partial failure of a sediment dam at the Mount technical standards and procedures, Thorley Warkworth mine.
The incident did not Introducing a new global Communities and including those covering the Management result in any environmental harm.
We paid Social Performance CSP target to our of tailings and water storage facilities, US$57,618 in fines related to environmental procurement practices for 2016-2020, with geotechnical risk and rail safety.
Further information on the Groups 100 per cent of businesses on track.
Receiving endorsement from the ICMM environmental regulation, including incidents tailings review group on Rio Tintos safe and fines, is in the Directors report on page 48. tailings governance practices.
Goals and targets We set targets to communicate across the company the areas where we need to improve in sustainability performance and to stretch our thinking as to what is possible and acceptable.
Our performance against these targets is summarised below.
Actions to maintain or improve performance in these areas is described in the following pages.
Further information on the risk framework we apply to identify these metrics can be found on pages 14 to 23.
Targets Outcomes in 2016 Our goal is zero harm, including, above all, the elimination of One fatality at managed operations in 2016. workplace fatalities.
Performance against this goal is measured by the number of fatalities AIFR remains the same as 2015. and a year-on-year improvement in our all injury frequency rate AIFR per 200,000 hours worked.
A year-on-year improvement in the rate of new cases of occupational 36 per cent increase in the rate of new cases of occupational illness illness per 10,000 employees annually.
By the end of 2018, all managed operations will be effectively controlling 57 per cent of businesses identified and consolidated critical control exposure to all identified material health risks by verifying that critical management plans for their material health risks with the remainder on controls are reducing harmful exposure.
track to achieve our end of 2018 goal.
Our diversity goal is to employ people based on job requirements that represent the diversity of our surrounding communities.
We are targeting: Women to represent 20 per cent of our senior management by 2016.
Women represented 19.2 per cent of our senior management in 2016.
Women to represent 40 per cent of our 2016 graduate intake.
Women represented ten per cent of our Executive committee in 2016.
From 1 January 2017, women represented 27.3 per cent of our 15 per cent of our 2016 graduate intake to be nationals from regions Executive Committee.
Women represented 46.4 per cent of our 2016 graduate intake.
36.2 per cent of our 2016 graduate intake were nationals from regions where we are developing new businesses.
From 2016 all operations will locally report on an annual basis, and will 100 per cent of sites established their Communities and Social demonstrably achieve by 2020: Performance targets in 2016.
Progress against a locally defined target that demonstrates the local economic benefits of employment and procurement of goods and services.
Effective capture and management of community complaints with year-on-year reduction in repeat and significant complaints.
24 per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions intensity We are on track to meet our 2020 target.
Seven per cent reduction in between 2008 and 2020. greenhouse gas emissions intensity in 2016 versus 2015.
All managed operations with material water risk will have achieved their 67 per cent of managed operations are on track to meet their approved approved local water performance targets by 2018. local water performance targets.
com 25 Sustainable development continued Performance data A summary of our performance data is Data reported in previous years may be statements into our own policies, strategies provided in the table below.
The data are modified if verification processes detect andstandards.
 reported for calendar years and unless stated material errors, or if changes are required to the GRI G4 guidelines.
otherwise represent 100 per cent of the ensure comparability over time.
Further information on our data definitions, our parameters at each managed operation even We have incorporated the requirements of the GRI G4 report and our alignment with the ICMM though Rio Tinto may have only ten principles of the ICMM and the mandatory are available online at riotinto.
requirements set out in the ICMM position a Performance data 2012-2016 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Social Fatalities at managed operations from safety incidents 1 4232 Fatalities at managed operations from health incidents 1 All injury frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked 0.44 0.44 0.59 0.65 0.67 Number of lost time injuries 206 220 381 500 535 Lost time injury frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked 0.26 0.25 0.37 0.42 0.37 New cases of occupational illness per 10,000 employees 44 31 17 16 15 b Employees number 51,000 55,000 60,000 66,000 71,000 Environment # Greenhouse gas emissions intensity indexed relative to 2008 74.1 79.7 81.7 83.2 94.1 Total energy use petajoules 454 433 450 484 502 Freshwater used billion litres 467 460 465 436 446 Land footprint disturbed square kilometres 3,696 3,629 3,592 3,556 3,530 Land footprint rehabilitated square kilometres 541 533 502 472 446 Direct economic contribution c d Value add US$ million 19,515 18,888 29,178 31,818 26,195 c Payments to suppliers US$ million 15,637 17,896 21,370 26,054 30,271 Community contributions US$ million 166 184 264 332 291 Numbers restated from those originally published to ensure comparability over time.
# Number restated from 78.9 following the application from 1 January 2015 of updated global warming potentials from the IPCCs fourth assessment report.
a Data reported in previous years may be modified if verification processes detect material errors, or if changes are required to ensure comparability over time.
Wherever possible, data for operations acquired prior to 1 October of the reporting period are included.
Divested operations are included in data collection processes up until the transfer of management control.
b These figures include the Groups share of joint ventures and associates rounded to the nearest thousand.
c These figures include the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
d Value add is the sum of labour, payments to governments and returns on capital invested in operations.
 the management and disclosure of leadership.
 and to contribute further to sustainable resilience to climate change risks.
of fatality elimination, injury reduction and Meet the expectations of the new ICMM catastrophic risk prevention including position statement on water stewardship for 2017 priorities process safety.
transparent water governance and water Our priorities for 2017 are to: management at operations.
 Participate in the tailings committee of the prevention goal.
It is a dedicated fatality Maintain momentum of the CRM Australian National Committee on Large prevention programme which involves every programme and achieve our first Dams to further improve industry guidelines person at our operational sites checking that fatality-free year.
critical controls are in place for jobs that Collaborate with our joint venture partners Strengthen processes to manage human include a fatality risk, and that they are working to improve safety performance across our rights risk across our value chain through effectively.
In 2016 every Rio Tinto managed managed and non-managed sites, such as our third-party due diligence project.
operation rolled out CRM and over 1.3 million with PT Freeport Indonesia on the critical control verifications were completed.
Strengthen integration of human rights implementation of a fatality prevention considerations in incident reporting, impact programme at the Grasberg joint operation Whilst we have maintained our injury assessments, and complaints handling.
performance, we are yet to achieve a fatality Progress the closure planning for facilities Reduce new cases of occupational illnesses, free year.
In June we experienced a fatality nearing the end of their economically with a particular focus on stress, within our managed operations when an viable life.
noise-induced hearing loss and fitness employee was killed while undertaking for work.
maintenance on a drill at the Paraburdoo iron Our people , WesternAustralia.
Continue the focus on our technical risk Safety This tragedy continues to impact family, standards such as those covering process The safety of our people is Rio Tintos highest friends, workmates and the local community.
safety, water and tailings management, and priority and we believe all safety incidents are The business provided immediate support and geotechnical events.
We work to create a safe counselling services and continues to do so.
A Implement measures to improve environment through strong safety systems, full investigation has been completed and the employee engagement.
processes and tools, and verifications of critical learnings have been shared across Rio Tinto to Increase our graduate intake for 2017. controls together with visible and caring prevent an incident like this being repeated.
Strengthen our understanding and improve 26 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS The all injury frequency rate AIFR, which communities surrounding our operations for Communities and regional includes data for employees and contractors, vector-borne and infectious diseases such as development was 0.44 per 200,000 hours worked for the tuberculosis, Ebola, malaria and HIV AIDS and, Our Communities and Social Performance 2016 year.
Over the last five years, we have more recently, Zika.
During 2016, we CSP standard is the basis on which we build reduced our AIFR by 34 per cent.
Although we contributed to the international response to the relationships and local knowledge, engage with had 14 fewer lost time injuries in 2016 when Zika virus by preparing our business resilience communities and develop programmes that compared with 2015, due to a reduction in our teams.
We also continued to collect data for reflect mutually agreed priorities.
Our workforce hours, our lost time injury frequency the epidemiological study of the workforce at framework is founded on trust and mutual rate LTIFR was 0.26 per 200,000 hours the Rssing uranium mine in Namibia, which respect and we use it to identify and manage worked in 2016 a four per cent increase has gained approval by the Ethics Committee social risks, and to build relationships that compared with 2015. of the University of Manchester and the secure community support for our work.
Catastrophic risks are managed and assured Agreements are the basis of many of our , deepdivesand Employee relations relationships.
Process safety is one such risk negotiated more than 40 participation In 2016, we employed 51,000 people, including and its management involves designing, agreements and more than 120 global the Groups share of joint ventures and operating and maintaining our processes for exploration access agreements.
In 2016 we associates, in around 35 countries.
Of these, preventing a catastrophic release of hazardous approximately 28,000 were located in launched a new guide, Why agreements materials or energy.
There were no process Australasia, 13,000 in North America, 6,000 in matter, which describes practices related to safety incidents with a major or catastrophic Africa, 2,000 in Europe, and 2,000 in Central community agreements.
This guide supports consequence in 2016.
We progressed the our commitment to build strong community and South America.
See page 201 for a implementation of our Process safety standard, relationships and publicly shares the lessons breakdown of employees by business units.
updated in 2015, to reduce process safety risks.
we have learned over the past two decades of We understand the relationship between agreement making.
Health employee engagement and the productivity of Our partnership with Australias Northern We aim to eliminate occupational illness and to our business, and are focused on increasing Territory Government, Developing East create workplaces that protect health and engagement levels with all employees and Arnhem Limited DEAL, won a National promote wellbeing.
Guided by our health their representatives.
We want to be a Economic Development Excellence Award for standards, we identify emerging health issues preferred employer.
In our 2016 survey of best rural and remote initiative.
We created and key occupational health risks, and apply employee engagement, the results indicated DEAL to help generate new economic activity in controls to mitigate these.
Our focus areas in that our leaders have more to do in addressing the East Arnhem region following curtailment 2016 were occupational illness reduction, the impacts of past organisational change and of the Gove alumina refinery.
DEALs housing health risk management, wellness and mental headcount reductions.
We were, however, very programme allows businesses to rent health, and the control of vector-borne and pleased with the level of engagement at our properties to accommodate employees and infectious diseases.
newestlargeproject, OyuTolgoi, andwith their familes and has helped generate more strong recognition across the Group on our In 2016, the rate of new cases of occupational than 200 jobs in the region.
The revenue DEAL approach to safety.
illness increased by 36 per cent from 2015. derives from the housing assets is reinvested in This further increase is due to increased local economic development initiatives.
We value the strength that a diverse workforce reporting of noise-induced hearing loss NIHL Sharing the wealth and benefits that our and an inclusive culture bring to our business.
and a number of previously unreported historic operations create is also fundamental to our We employ people on the basis of job NIHLs being identified and reported in 2016.
In addition to the taxes and royalties requirements and do not discriminate on increasing awareness of medical surveillance paid to both regional and federal governments grounds of age, ethnic or social origin, gender, and tighter reporting requirements of health in 2016 see our Taxes paid in 2016 report, sexual orientation, politics, religion, disability or incidents also contributed to the increase.
The which will be published later this year on the anyotherstatus.
Wedonotemployforced, main types of occupational illnesses in 2016 Groups website, we also contributed to 1,294 bonded or child labour.
We recognise the right were noise-induced hearing loss 60 per cent, of all employees to choose to belong to a union programmes covering a wide range of sectors musculoskeletal disorders 11 per cent and and to seek to bargain collectively.
We employ such as health, education, environmental stress 23 per cent.
protection, housing, agricultural and business people with disabilities and make considerable development.
Our business spent efforts to offer suitable alternative employment Our health risk management programme helps US$166 million on community contribution and retraining to employees who become operational sites manage their material health programmes.
This was a decrease in overall disabled and can no longer perform their risks effectively by verifying that critical community contributions of ten per cent regular duties.
controls are reducing harmful exposure for compared with 2015 due to lower agreementemployees and contractors.
During 2016, We remain one of the largest private sector related payments flowing from lower businesses identified and consolidated critical employers of Indigenous Australians, with over commodity prices.
control management plans for their material 1,467 full-time Indigenous employees who We introduced a new CSP target for health risks.
represented approximately 8.3 per cent of our 2016-2020 aimed at capacity-building in our Australian employees in 2016.
Our local We are implementing a range of wellness and local communities.
It requires all operations to employment commitments are often managed mental health programmes and working to develop locally tailored employment, through directly negotiated agreements with improve how we measure their effectiveness.
procurement and complaint management Traditional Owners.
Fatigue remains a critical risk and, during 2016, targets, and report annually on progress.
At the in conjunction with the Central Queensland end of 2016, all sites had established In 2016, women represented 46.4 per cent University in Australia and the University of their targets.
female: 32: male: 37 of our graduate intake, Witwatersrand in South Africa, we began a 27.3 per cent female: 3: male: 8 of the board, During 2016, Rio Tinto launched its second study of management attitudes to fatigue 19.2 per cent female: 100: male: 420 of our Reconciliation Action Plan RAP, which across a number of sites in Africa and Australia.
senior management, and 18.2 per cent female: outlines how we will build deeper engagement a We are working with local governments and 7,933: male: 35,701 of our total workforce.
between Indigenous communities and a Gender distribution for our total workforce is based on health organisations to ensure effective Further information on inclusion and diversity managed operations excludes non-managed operations education in, control of and, where necessary,  and joint ventures as of 31 December 2016.
Less than treatment of our employees, contractors and section on page 63. one per cent of the workforce gender is undeclared.
com 27 Sustainable development continued our operations around Australia.
The 2035 scenarios: low-carbon energy R&D and of this will see us adopt further improvements 2016-2019 RAP sets stretch targets for investment strategies: key performance in water governance and planning processes.
Indigenous employment, education and indicators: and public policy activities.
In 2016 During the year we supported the development training, and business development.
At the end we commenced work on identifying appropriate of the new ICMM position statement on of 2016, the total national percentage of scenarios against which to test our business Water Stewardship.
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people resilience.
The focus in 2017 will be on applying Management of tailings and structures employed by Rio Tinto in Australia was these scenarios to our assets and products.
 8.3 per cent compared with our eight per cent facilities at 33 sites and currently have closed Operational environment performance target by December 2019.
The Group is the impoundments that we continue to monitor at We manage ongoing environmental aspects at first resources company to obtain an Elevate five sites.
We continue to review and audit our operations to avoid or minimise related RAP, the highest possible phase achievable in operations including with independent health or environmental impacts, including air Reconciliation Australias RAP programme.
external reviews to ensure that practices at all emissions, noise, water discharge and waste.
managed tailings and major water storage We have our own internal environmental and Protecting the environment facilities are in full compliance with all relevant occupational health standards and are subject Climate change and energy industry standards as well as our Management to various environmental regulations.
Our air We acknowledge the changing global climate, of tailings and water storage facilities standard.
quality protection standard is designed to and support the intent and aspirations of the Assurance over these storage facilities by prevent breaches under normal and worst-case Paris Agreement to limit global warming to less internal and independent third-party reviews weather conditions, with the focus on than two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial remains a focus.
controlling and monitoring our air emissions at levels.
We are aiming for a substantial their source and understanding impacts on During 2016, we participated in the ICMM decarbonisation of our business by 2050 and local airsheds.
review of tailings dam management amongst are taking steps to reduce emissions, manage its member companies by sharing practices, risk and build resilience to climate change.
This We have mechanisms to record and enable us protocols and assurance processes.
The work is supported by our climate change to respond to complaints, disputes and resultant ICMM position statement on tailings position statement.
grievances about issues such as noise and management is consistent with our own dust.
While the overall number of recorded Our climate change programme focuses on approach.
It outlines principles for preventing grievances is low, we work with communities reducing the energy intensity of our operations catastrophic failures of tailings dams through neighbouring our operations to understand the and the carbon intensity of our energy.
Our risk control for planning and design, impact and improve our practices.
Our air total greenhouse gas GHG emissions were implementation and operation, monitoring and quality monitoring information is made publicly 32 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent inspection, and disaster management.
Since available through site-specific websites and COe in 2016, 0.3 million tonnes higher than 2 the principles identified in ICMMs position community monitoring programmes.
The majority of our GHG emissions are statement are already incorporated in our generated as a result of energy use electricity, We look for opportunities to reuse or recycle standard, it was not necessary for the Rio Tinto fuel and chemical processes anodes and our waste.
Where that is not possible, we standard to be updated.
The majority manage it in facilities suited to its specific Economic contributions 68percent  physical nature and risks whilst also minimising hydro, wind and solar power, which is similar to disposal costs and avoiding future liabilities.
In Equitably sharing the wealth that our previous years.
2016, we disposed of or stored 1,781 million operations create provides substantial benefits tonnes of mineral waste predominantly waste and long-term opportunities for the Transportation, processing and use of our rock and tailings and 529,123 tonnes of communities, regions and countries in which products also contribute to GHG emissions.
About one fifth of our we operate.
Our contributions include the 2016, the three most significant sources of mineral waste has the potential to react with transparent payment of tax to local and indirect emissions associated with our air and water or break down to create national governments, dividends to products were: potentially harmful contaminants, such as shareholders, the direct and indirect Approximately 6 million tonnes of COe acidic and metalliferous drainage AMD.
Our employment we generate, and investment in 2 associated with third-party transport of our controls are designed to prevent AMD impacts.
The payments we products and raw materials, representing a make to our suppliers also represent a Our water resource management programme ten per cent increase versus 2015. significant part of our global economic focuses on site-specific risks, such as security contribution.
The figures in this section include An estimated 102 million tonnes of COe 2 of water supply, managing the quality of water the Groups share of joint ventures associated with customers using our coal in returned to the environment during operations and associates.
electricity generation and steel production, and at closure, and balancing operational representing a 13 per cent decrease Globally, the Groups direct economic needs with those of local communities, versus 2015. contribution was US$35.1 billion in 2016.
Traditional Owners and Approximately 524 million tonnes of COe This includes: 2 regulatory requirements.
associated with customers using our iron US$, madeupof We carry out an annual assessment of ore to produce steel these emissions are payments to employees, payments to performance against site-specific water not all in addition to the coal-use emissions governments and returns on capital.
targets, which have been established for those above, as some customers use both our iron US$15.6 billion as payments to suppliers.
sites where water is a material risk for the ore and our coal to produce steel, business, and focus efforts on operations that representing a three per cent increase During 2016, our capital investment was may need to improve.
67 per cent of managed operations were on In 2016, our shareholders passed a resolution We are a major employer and tax contributor to track to meet their local water performance to report on our progress in addressing climate local, state and national jurisdictions.
Our new climate change report will promote governance over the benefits of provide information on what we are doing to To ensure we are maintaining the right mining that flow through to host communities prepare our business for a low-carbon future emphasis on long-term water management, we and governments by being transparent in the under five areas: operational emissions completed a detailed analysis of our payments we make and by striving to provide management: asset portfolio resilience to postwater-related risks during 2016.
The outcomes local employment and procurement 28 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS opportunities.
Details of the payments we Principles on Security and Human Rights We provide training for security personnel and made to governments will be published in our VPSHR.
Our human rights approach is conduct security and human rights analysis in Taxes paid in 2016 report, and made consistent with the United Nations Guiding support of our security arrangements.
Principles on Business and Human Rights online VPSHR training is mandatory for all UNGPs.
Where our standards and procedures security personnel at high risk sites and is Governance are stricter than local laws, we seek to apply strongly recommended for all our other our own standards.
During the year we conducted Business integrity VPSHR and Use of Force training for security We are firmly committed to operating with Our most salient human rights issues are those providers at three of our locations in South integrity and being accountable for our actions.
relating to security, land access and Africa and Guinea.
The key principles that guide our behaviour in resettlement, Indigenous peoples rights the The way we work are supported by including cultural heritage, environment Non-managed operations and arrangements standards that cover antitrust, business , labourrightsand We hold interests in companies and joint integrity, conflicts of interest, data privacy, in-migration-related impacts on local arrangements that we do not manage, the two fraud and third party due diligence.
All of these communities such as access to health services.
largest being the Escondida copper mine in are supported by workforce training.
During In 2016 we engaged with investors, civil society Chile and the Grasberg copper-gold mine in 2016 we began a review of our companys and community members on issues related to Indonesia.
We actively engage with our purpose and vision in consultation with our our own operations and to our business partners through formal governance structures employees and included safety and excellence partners such as land access, cultural heritage, and technical exchanges and endeavour to into our values.
ensure that the principles in The way we work areapplied.
 We maintain a strict stance against bribery and Human rights considerations are included in embed a strong safety, security and human corruption.
We remain dedicated to open and our business processes and we conduct rights culture in their workforces.
transparent dealings with our stakeholders.
standalone studies and programmes at highOur integrity and compliance programme is risk sites when required.
In 2016 we updated Escondida aligned with the risk-based approach included our human rights training.
The introductory Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest in .
Weupdate module will be required to be undertaken by all Escondida, which is managed by BHP Billiton.
our training materials and delivery to ensure employees as part of our business integrity Our seats on the Owners Council enable us they remain engaging and relevant to the risks training from 2017.
Function-specific modules regular input on strategic and policy matters.
around communities, procurement, security Sadly, there was one fatality in 2016, whereby and inclusion and diversity will also be a maintainer was fatally injured when working Speak-OUT, the Groups confidential and made available.
 whistleblowing programme, enables employees, suppliers To support our Communities and Social Construction of the Escondida Water Supply contractors and community members to report Performance target for 2016-2020, sites began desalination project progressed well in 2016. anonymously, subject to local law, any collecting data relating to the effective capture Initial start-up milestones have been met and significant concerns about the business, or and management of community complaints.
All the plant is on track to be fully operational in behaviour of individuals.
This could include sites are required to have a complaints, 2017.
By utilising seawater, the plant will suspicion around safety violations, disputes and grievance mechanism in place in significantly reduce demand on fresh environmental procedures, human rights, line with the effectiveness criteria for groundwater resources around the mine.
financial reporting or business integrity issues operational-level grievance mechanisms in the Grasberg in general.
We are committed to a culture of UNGPs.
We strive to achieve the free, prior and PT Freeport Indonesia PTFI, a subsidiary of transparency and encourage employees to informed consent of Indigenous communities Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, Inc. owns speak up about their issues and concerns, as defined in the 2012 International Finance and operates the Grasberg mine in Papua, whether through their management, human Corporation Performance Standard 7 and the Indonesia.
ICMM position statement on Indigenous attributable to the 1995 mine expansion, which Peoples and Mining.
 entitles Rio Tinto to a 40 per cent share of Speak-OUT,  or In 2016, our new Supplier code of conduct was production above specified levels until the end management, representing an increase of launched, which clearly outlines expectations of 2021 and 40 per cent of all production after approximately 12 per cent on last year.
The of our suppliers, their subsidiaries and 2021 this date is subject to extension under increase is mainly due to a higher volume of sub-contractors including around human and certainconditions.
WeengagewithPTFI incidents raised outside of the hotline.
The code is available on our through four forums: the Operating, Technical six per cent of cases raised this year were website and we distributed 32,000 copies to and Sustainable Development committees and substantiated, resulting in corrective and our current suppliers.
We continue to work to .
ensure we have a comprehensive approach on The largest of these, the multidisciplinary responsible supply chains and human rights.
Information on the Groups operational, Technical Committee, enables discussion of Work also progressed on third-party due financial and sustainable development joint operation activities such as environmental diligence including in relation to suppliers.
We performance is issued on time through a management, orebody knowledge, project launched our Know your supplier procedure number of channels, such as media releases execution, worker health and safety, which establishes a process to understand and regulatory filings.
We communicate views communities, mine planning, processing and legal, ethical and reputational risks arising from to governments and others on matters tailings management.
Rio Tinto is represented useofasupplier.
by a senior environmental manager on the PTFI We developed our first annual modern slavery tailings management board, which meets twice Human rights statement in compliance with the UK Modern a year at Grasberg and includes third-party We respect and support human rights Slavery Act 2015.
The statement outlines the experts.
A Rio Tinto senior manager also works consistent with the Universal Declaration of steps taken in 2016 to ensure that slavery and closely with PTFI on key safety improvement Human Rights, wherever we operate.
We have human trafficking are not taking place in any of activities such as fatality our own human rights policy and procedures our operations or supply chains.
This will be prevention programmes.
and have made voluntary commitments to the published online at riotinto.
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Global Compact and the Voluntary 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 29 Sustainable development continued Tragically, there were four fatalities at PTFI commitments and expectations associated operations in 2016: one electrician was fatally with operations we have relinquished.
injured whilst performing routine maintenance We aim to progressively rehabilitate land as we on a transmission line: one worker was struck operate at a mine site.
In 2016, 26 per cent of by a moving forklift: one worker fell our disturbed land excluding land disturbed approximately six metres when checking a for hydroelectricity dams had powersupplyfault: been rehabilitated.
was not properly secured in a bulldozer was thrown from the machine when it slid down a Our industry is entering a new stage in mine bench slope.
We worked with the PTFI team to closure, with many of our peers also planning share fatality prevention initiatives including to close large operations over the next decade.
CRM and learning critical lessons to ensure In many jurisdictions where we operate, the circumstances leading to these incidents regulatory frameworks for large mine closure are not repeated.
In collaboration with our peers, we are improving Closure our understanding of opportunities, seeking Our planning for closure starts early to ensure solutions to challenges and engaging that post-closure outcomes are achievable and governments to establish good closure policies that impacts and risks are minimised.
is overseen by our Closure Steering Committee Assurance to ensure good closure processes and governance.
We engaged an independent external assurance organisation, We work with local communities and regulators , to provide the to evaluate potential post-closure land uses directors of Rio Tinto with assurance on and agree on closure objectives.
During 2016, selected sustainable development subject we continued detailed closure planning for a matters, as explained on the next page.
number of large mines that will reach the end of their commercially viable life over the next  assurance statement ten years.
satisfies the requirements of subject matters 1 to 4 of the ICMM assurance procedure.
We manage a range of non-operational sites, including those inherited through acquisitions Further information on external auditors and andmergers,  internal assurance is included in the Directors located or are former industrial or brownfield report under the Corporate governance section sites.
During 2016, 11 of the sites progressed on pages 60 and 66. .
In many jurisdictions we maintain long-term responsibility for monitoring and managing the sites.
We are also learning from the 30 riotinto.
