DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 SAFETY & ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT 103 Sir Frank Chapman Safety & Ethics Chairman of the Safety & Ethics Committee Committee report In addition to its oversight role for the Board, To review reports on health and safety Highlights the Committee supports management in its risks and proposed actions to manage aim to create, promote and maintain an such risks.
Ethics and compliance ethical, compliant, safety-conscious, To review remedial actions and lessons improvement programmes  and sociallylearned in relation to material well embedded and reaching responsible culture across the Group as a investigations.
means of delivering its safety and ethics goals.
To review disciplinary action taken Detailed review of product following safety and ethics concerns.
Principal responsibilities safety management in Marine To keep under review the key undertaken, providing good Under its wide remit, the Committees key performance indicators in relation levels of assurance.
responsibilities are: to safety and ethics.
Key safety and ethics Group To maintain an understanding of and The Committee regularly reports to the policies rolled out to Power keep under review the Groups Board and refers any concerns about Systems.
frameworks for the effective governance possible financial improprieties to the of safety and ethics and the Groups Audit Committee.
Two of the four members Improved score in Dow Jones culture in these areas.
are also members of the Audit Committee: Sustainability Index.
To oversee and review annually the this enables strong links to be made Groups key safety and ethics policies, between the oversight of behavioural and including: the Global Code of Conduct, cultural issues, and the detection and anti-bribery and corruption and export control of the consequential financial risks 2016 overview controls, product safety, HS&E and and implications.
sustainability policies, and ensuring The Group President, Group Director appropriate independent scrutiny of Introduction Engineering and Technology, General policies and practices.
Counsel, Director of Risk and other senior The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling safety and risk executives attend Committee To review compliance with relevant its oversight responsibilities in respect of meetings.
Lord Gold attended the legislation and regulations and make safety and ethics matters, which include: Committees meetings in July and recommendations in key policy areas.
More on Lord Golds role and his To oversee training in respect of safety work is on page 105.
HS&E occupational health, process and ethics, including ensuring adequate safety, asset integrity, personal security arrangements exist to enable employees The Committee considered its terms of and the environment.
and contractors to raise concerns in reference during the year and proposed confidence.
certain revisions for the Board to consider.
This included: the deletion of reference to To review reports on issues raised Ethics business ethics, anti-bribery and oversight of fraud policy, since fraud through the Ethics Line and review the corruption, data privacy and export prevention and risk management results of any investigations into ethical controls compliance.
procedures are reviewed by the Audit or compliance breaches or allegations of Committee: and minor definitional The Committee has been allocated misconduct.
amendments to reflect the breadth of topics responsibility on behalf of the Board for overseen by the Committee.
The terms of To review reports on risks in relation to overseeing the Groups principal risks of reference otherwise remained appropriate.
products not meeting safety product failure and compliance see pages expectations.
These topics form a core part of discussions at our meetings.
104 DIRECTORS REPORT SAFETY & ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 At a glance Area of focus Matters considered Outcome Ethics and Progress with ethics and compliance improvement Continuing very good progress made in implementing plans and compliance programme.
Lord Gold relayed his views to the Committee from his participation in employee focus groups at various locations during 2016.
Ethics and compliance KPIs established.
Monitoring deployment of anti-bribery and corruption Global ABC policies adopted and published by Power Systems ABC policies.
after approval by works councils.
Promotion of an ethical culture, and handling of cases Employee performance assessments now include review of of unethical behaviour.
behaviours including creating trust and being a positive role model for ethical behaviour, fairness and integrity.
Review of maturity of ethics and compliance processes Mixed picture highlighting areas where more focus is required to and policies at joint ventures.
Impact of local ethics advisers LEAs.
Met with LEAs to discuss their experiences.
Presence of LEAs means more concerns being raised and dealt with locally.
Use of commercial intermediaries and advisers.
Significant reduction in number of commercial intermediaries and advisers used.
Response to the General Data Protection Regulations.
Application made to the Information Commissioner's office for Binding Corporate Rules.
Product safety Product safety incidents in service and the Groups Satisfactory response to incidents and support to investigations.
Annual review of product safety metrics and Product failure risk can never be fully mitigated but the Groups the product failure principal risk dashboard.
exposure is well-managed and reducing through better identification and controls.
Management of personal and product safety risks Consistent, regular messaging from senior leadership and the safety during transformation and organisational changes.
teams serve to keep safety front of mind to reduce risk.
Expected The role and impact of culture on product safety.
cultural safety behaviours defined and endorsed.
Plans are in place to drive improvement where gaps identified.
The product safety policy, elements of the product The framework and systems are robust and provide appropriate safety assurance framework and aspects of safety governance and accountability.
Workshop on product safety in Marine, followed by The Marine business has made significant improvements in its visit to facilities in Norway.
governance of product safety, the maturity of its processes and the embedding of its safety culture.
Sustainability Consideration of Modern Slavery Act disclosure We reviewed and strengthened the policy and processes relating requirements, and the mechanism for imposing to human rights and facilitated the disclosure statement that will assurance requirement on suppliers.
The Groups Dow Jones Sustainability Index submission Improved score versus 2015 and industry-best scores in several and results.
Travel security Review of travel security programme.
Robust and well-managed arrangements are in place.
DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 SAFETY & ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT 105 Area of focus Matters considered Outcome Health, Review of HS&E risk profile, total reportable injuries Risk profile updated to reflect identified risks and their likelihood.
safety & the TRI performance reports, learning from incidents TRI performance improved in all businesses, though remains high environment and global HS&E improvement programmes.
We reviewed Power Systems improvement plan HS&E concluding that it was robust.
New standards and procedures on control of contractors are being implemented and electrical safety will remain an area of focus.
Review of HS&E governance as adjusted following Governance changes considered appropriate for new organisational removal of the Aerospace and Land & Sea divisions in structure.
January 2016. Review of HS&E strategy and assurance.
We endorsed the HS&E strategy.
HS&E assurance methodology was adapted to improve quality of audits.
Implementation of new HS&E management system.
Progress is being made which will facilitate better reporting and shared learning across the Group.
Strong crossover between product safety and HS&E could be better exploited.
The new human resources system will allow training requirements to be added to employees work plans.
Visit to the Groups Precision Castings Facility HS&E methodologies and good practices common with other examining HS&E management of processes.
an understanding of the extent to which ethics and compliance Ethics and compliance awareness and adherence to the Groups Global Code of Conduct Global Code is embedded in the Groups culture, and the Ethics and compliance are at the heart of the Groups culture and robustness of the risk management, controls and assurance are part of everything that we do at Rolls-Royce.
There is continued framework that supports this.
recognition that the Board and the ELT must demonstrate leadership around ethical and behavioural standards.
The Board is Lord Gold is invited to meetings of the Committee, and attended determined to ensure that ethical conduct remains embedded in in July and December 2016.
He updated us on his findings and the culture of the business.
The Committee plays a vital role in observations to date, including insights from the latest focus groups providing dedicated focus and attention on behalf of the Board to that he held with a range of employees in different businesses this critical area.
We discussed his observations and identified areas for continued focus.
Lord Golds latest report was Regulatory investigations issued to the Company in January 2017, and will be considered Following a lengthy period of investigation into allegations of by the Committee during this year.
bribery and corruption, in January 2017 the Group entered into Lord Gold will continue his role as an independent specialist in deferred prosecution agreements with the UK Serious Fraud Office 2017 and beyond, to report on findings and where appropriate and the US Department of Justice, and a leniency agreement with advise and make recommendations to be implemented.
His ongoing the Brazilian authority, MPF together the DPAs.
During 2016, the oversight is an important factor that led to the investigating Committee was kept informed on the ongoing status of the authorities deciding not to appoint their own monitor to oversee investigations and developments and discussions with the relevant the Groups adherence to the terms of the DPAs.
We fully supported and endorsed the Groups approach Lord Golds ongoing valuable insight and counsel as we maintain of full and open co-operation with the investigations, for which the our focus on sustaining a culture of compliance and zero tolerance Group was highly praised in the judgment of Lord Justice Leveson.
for unethical behaviour and misconduct.
Lord Golds work Our ethics and compliance programme Lord Gold, a leading expert on regulatory compliance matters, was Over the last few years the Group has continued to invest significantly appointed by the Group in 2013 to conduct an independent review in its ethics and compliance programme.
The Committee and the of its ethics and compliance procedures and to provide oversight of Groups management recognise that companies that are run ethically the Groups ethics and compliance improvement programme, under and have a strong compliance culture are sustainable, enabling which the recommendations contained in his interim reports to the profitable and long-term partnerships with their customers, Company in 2013 and December 2014 have been implemented.
As part of his work, Lord Gold has reviewed the Groups policies and procedures, met with many members of management, the ethics and compliance teams, and a wide range of other employees to gain 106 DIRECTORS REPORT SAFETY & ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 We have continued to oversee significant progress in the Groups Training ethics and compliance improvement programme throughout 2016.
The Committee attaches significant importance to regular, relevant Having established the programme, there was increased focus in and focused training and therefore has spent time reviewing the 2016 on the oversight and assurance of ethics and compliance Groups ethics and compliance training programme including the issues ensuring that we do what we say we do.
levels of participation and feedback from the 2015 business ethics training programme.
It approved the proposal for the 2016 business The size, structure and skills of the risk function were kept under ethics training, built on manager-led group discussions based on review during the year with regard to the required resourcing to real ethical dilemma scenarios.
Annual ethics training is mandatory deliver and maintain the appropriate level of focus.
This included a for all employees across the Group.
restructuring of the Power Systems senior ethics and compliance leadership to allow more central oversight, specialist expertise and ABC training is mandatory for all employees who have dealings with better integration.
persons outside of the Company and focused face-to-face training is provided to those employees whose roles have higher exposure to Anti-bribery and corruption ABC policies ABC risk.
Monthly dilemma-based stories drawn from real cases also During 2016, the full suite of ABC Group policies, which had been continued to be published on the Groups intranet during 2016 revised in 2014 and 2015, were rolled out into the Power Systems inviting employees to vote on what action they would take.
business following approval by the local works councils, providing Mandatory training programmes will continue in 2017. coverage across the entire Group for the first time.
1,2 ETHICS EMPLOYEE CERTIFICATION AND TRAINING % OF EMPLOYEES Since the introduction of the Groups new adviser policy in 2014, all advisers engaged by the Group are rigorously vetted through the 100 100 97 97 97 Groups advisers panel, presently comprised of the Director of Risk, Lord Gold, and a partner from an external law firm.
The new adviser 80 policy has significantly reduced the number of advisers engaged by 60 the Group including at Power Systems which has a large network of distributors and is more reliant on the services of third parties to 40 sell, distribute and support its products, in a similar way to automotive dealerships.
In 2016, the review of Power Systems 20 advisers in accordance with the Group adviser policy progressed well towards completion during 2017.
Certification 0 2015 2016 Training Ethics Line and local ethics advisers 1 Ethical questions and concerns that are raised by employees and 2015 certification by managers only.
other stakeholders are recorded as contacts in the Ethics Line system, the Groups confidential reporting helpline.
The total Disciplinary proceedings under the Global Code of Conduct number of Ethics Line contacts marginally decreased in 2016 to 683 2015: 729 contacts with the number of ethical concerns discussed If an employee is found to have acted in breach of the Global Code, the remaining at a similar level to last year at 428 2015: 439 concerns.
Group takes appropriate action to address that breach.
That action may The Ethics Line oversight group continued to review cases, analyse include giving a disciplinary warning, imposing another penalty or, the contact trends, focus on the root cause of reported cases and ultimately, terminating employment in the most serious of cases.
provide updates to the Committee, highlighting any high-risk cases.
In 2016, there were 38 employees 2015: 33 employees whose We share any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of employment ended for reasons relating to breaches of the Global Code.
financial reporting with the Audit Committee.
An improved investigations protocol was introduced in 2016 to underpin the Global Code and the suite of ABC Group policies, and to In December 2016, the Committee met with some of the Groups support faster resolution of issues.
local ethics advisers LEAs to hear from them about their experiences and engagement with employees on ethics issues.
The Behavioural expectations linked to performance and reward LEAs are appointed from the existing workforce, are trained in how In 2016, the Group updated its performance review process so that it to respond to ethical issues raised, and are in place to promote provided an increased focus on behavioural expectations as a core speaking up and tackling of ethical issues locally where appropriate assessment feature in all employees formal performance reviews.
The to provide staff with an alternative to using the Ethics Line.
At the required behaviours include creating trust and a baseline by which end of 2016 there were a total of 80 LEA roles across the Group.
employees will be recognised and rewarded for acting as a positive role model for ethical behaviour.
From 2016, manager bonuses include Data privacy an element based on what objectives managers have achieved and the Recognising the importance of data privacy to employees, behaviours they have demonstrated.
The Committee welcomed this customers, suppliers and other stakeholders, the Group is investing positive step as a means of embedding expectations and maintaining in data privacy compliance by preparing to adopt the Binding individuals focus.
We were briefed on the implications for the Group of the rules, which are due to come into force in May 2018, and reviewed the Groups plans to ensure compliance with them.
DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 SAFETY & ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT 107 We also reviewed the learnings from a fire arising in an engine Product safety assembled into an MTU railcar powerpack on a London Midland The Group recognises that its products are critical to its customers, diesel locomotive, and had an initial briefing on the grounding and the people its customers serve, all over the world.
As Rolls-Royce of a vessel in the Scottish Hebrides.
products become increasingly technologically advanced, they are Our work in reviewing incidents in service involved: monitoring expected to always be reliable and safe whenever they are used, managements progress in root cause identification: being briefed often in harsh operating environments.
Our commitment to meet on the development and deployment of technical solutions this expectation is essential to the Groups business, its reputation required: testing the Groups approach in engaging with affected and its sustainability.
As a Committee, we draw on our collective operators: and overseeing plans for the timely mitigation and industry and regulatory experience to oversee the Groups work in retirement of any safety risk including through applying lessons achieving this.
learned back into product design.
The Committee was again satisfied with the Groups response in swiftly deploying its safety A key theme in 2016 was to ensure that safety of people and assessment process to mitigate, control and monitor any potential product remained front of mind across the workforce during the product safety risks as they emerged.
As well as incidents in service, Groups current period of transformation.
We discussed this topic we were also assured by seeing examples of eradication of regularly during the year and reviewed the risk implications for conformity issues identified between the manufacturing and safety of organisational and role changes, and the lack of focus that assembly phases, through design and build instruction changes.
can emerge in times of uncertainty and change.
We were pleased to see that regular and clear communications, including videos from We conducted our annual review of the product safety metrics used senior leaders and poster campaigns, were taking place in order to as a management information indicator of the performance of the reinforce these messages.
This includes trend data on the number We discussed and endorsed a set of expected behaviours that will of Red Tops raised by each of the Rolls-Royce businesses, which is the promote and strengthen a culture where safety is prevalent.
These document raised when a safety issue is identified on a product.
behaviours are aligned to many of the expectations and principles We also reviewed the Groups product failure principal risk within the Groups values, the Global Code of Conduct and the dashboard.
Although product failure can never be fully mitigated, product safety Group policy, as well as features of the Groups high the Groups approach to risk identification and management, performance culture training.
Assessments against the expected assurance and controls gave us confidence that the likelihood of behaviours have led to plans for targeted improvements.
Again this year, the Committee received detailed briefings in During the year, the Committee continued the work started in relation to further elements of the product safety assurance 2015 to gain a deep understanding of how the product safety framework and safety management system.
In February 2016, we management system is applied in the Marine business.
This started reviewed the work of the product safety process council that was with a half-day workshop in March 2016 with members of the completed in 2015 and its plans for 2016.
This body is responsible for Marine leadership and product safety teams, where we covered the the definition and implementation of product safety processes, applicable legislative and industry regulatory framework, accident process effectiveness, compliance, governance of improvements, prevention methodology, and each of the detailed product safety development and training, and sharing of knowledge and best processes that underpin the product safety Group policy.
practice in the area of product safety within the Group.
We also This provided a good foundation upon which we were able to considered the role of external learning and regulation in product examine the maturity of implementation of these processes during safety.
We concluded that the framework and system remain robust a visit by the Committee members in September to the Groups and provide appropriate governance and accountability.
Marine facilities in lesund and Ulsteinvik, Norway.
We met with Rolls-Royce recognises in its product safety Group policy, reviewed local management and explored the product safety framework and annually by the Committee, that robust quality is an essential processes as they apply to design, manufacturing engineering, building block of product safety.
In 2016, we looked at the increasing production, assembly and testing, operator training, operational role of product quality planning which links the design and make performance monitoring and servicing of some of the business parts of product safety.
We also reviewed product conformity core products.
It was very valuable to gain an understanding performance metrics which showed that process compliance, as of the history and development of the business from the local indicated by audit findings, is improving.
We conducted a review of teams, as well as to see up close the current and planned products the product safety training programme, and considered how the and technology.
This helped the Committee to understand better Group manages the competency of its purchasing function given the journey the business had undertaken to increase the maturity the high proportion of components produced in the supply chain.
of product safety governance, and the areas of continued focus for improvement.
Throughout the year, we were kept regularly updated on productrelated safety incidents in service and considered the potential impact on the Group and its products.
This included the Airbus A400M crash near Seville, Spain in May 2015, and the Groups response to an issue detected on Trent 1000 intermediate pressure turbine IPT blades on All Nippon Airways Boeing 787 aircraft.
108 DIRECTORS REPORT SAFETY & ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 In February 2016, the Committee reviewed the 2015 Group HS&E Sustainability performance report and a balanced scorecard showing The Committee oversees and helps guide the Groups approach to performance trends against the Groups published target objectives sustainability, as well as monitoring progress towards goals in on protecting health, preventing injury and reducing environmental this area.
We then looked at in-year progress in June and again in December.
Overall, with recovery improvements to be made in some In September, Rolls-Royce once again improved its overall score in areas, performance remained on track towards achievement of the the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI, remaining listed in the target objectives see the Sustainable business section on page 42, DJSI World and Europe Indexes and achieving a bronze class award.
with the exception of our 2020 targets for the total reportable injury We achieved industry best scores for corporate governance, TRI rate and for total solid and liquid waste reduction, which materiality, product stewardship and human capital development, remain challenging.
The TRI rate for all our businesses has however and significantly improved our scores in the social reporting and improved.
From 2015, the inclusion of Power Systems TRI data has risk and crisis management categories.
This recognition reflects the significantly impacted the Groups overall TRI rate.
Extraordinary Groups continuing focus on public disclosure and transparency, effort has been applied to improve Power Systems performance in with the breadth of the 2016 submission enhanced by the inclusion this area and significant improvements were achieved in 2016, but of social and HS&E data sets from Power Systems.
there is more to do to drive this to a level matching that of the The Committee reviewed the Groups approach and steps being remainder of the Group.
taken in preparation for the statement required to be made in 2017 under the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015.
This statement outlines the TRI RATE PER 100 EMPLOYEES steps the Group has taken to minimise the risk of slavery and human 1 trafficking taking place in any part of the Groups supply chain.
Our 2016 anti-human trafficking and modern slavery statement is 0.8 available at www.
0.6 We also discussed the growing importance, underpinned by 0.4 developing legislation, on engaging external suppliers on sustainability issues.
The Groups principal enabler for this is its 0.2 Global Supplier Code of Conduct the Supplier Code, adherence to 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 which is mandated through contractual terms.
In 2016, the Group target focused on embedding sustainability and ethical considerations into sourcing and supplier selection, on strengthening Power Systems understanding and application of the Supplier Code, and on Rest of Group monitoring compliance with it.
E xternal assurance over STEM, Energy, GHG and TRI rate data provided by Bureau Veritas.
You can read more about the Groups approach to sustainability Seepage 183 for the sustainability assurance statement.
In December, representatives from Power Systems attended the Committee meeting to report on their HS&E recovery plans based Travel security on implementation of Group standards, policies and processes.
We were assured that the team recognised the need for improvements In July 2016, the Committee reviewed the Groups programme and are actively progressing with robust plans, supported by the and arrangements for ensuring the security of its workforce while central Group HS&E team.
travelling on business and were assured that these were robust and managed well.
The Committee also oversees the learning from incidents process that examines root causes of significant and major incidents, Health, safety and the environment identifies any systemic issues, and defines measures to mitigate against the risk of similar incidents.
We focused on the global During the year, we received a number of briefings and improvement programmes, in particular on electrical safety, presentations as part of an annual agreed cycle of HS&E topics.
infrastructure integrity and control of contractors which continue This enables oversight, discussion and year-on-year monitoring to be higher risk areas for the Group contributing to several serious of the Groups progress on key aspects of its HS&E management, incidents in the year.
The implementation of new Group-wide performance and assurance.
control standards and the continued use of HS&E bulletins are expected to contribute to better risk identification and hazard and The HS&E strategy and corporate strategic plan were presented to incident reduction in these and other areas.
the Committee, including measures and targets aligned to delivery of the strategic themes.
The Groups HS&E experts also provided updates to the Committee during the year on the HS&E improvement programme for field services, and on the wellbeing element of the occupational health strategy.
The Committee was satisfied that good progress was being made on these programmes.
DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 SAFETY & ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT 109 We conducted an annual review of HS&E governance, which Looking forward includes a rolling calendar of executive level reviews.
The governance structure was adapted following the removal of the The Group continues to have a high degree of focus on the Aerospace and Land & Sea divisional structures from the start of management of product safety, peoples health and safety, 2016.
We concluded that this remained satisfactory.
environmental, ethics and compliance risks, with constant improvements being sought.
With sustained support from senior The Committee examined the HS&E Group risk profile twice in the leadership and the central expert teams, there is encouraging year, which remained largely stable against the previous reporting evidence that consideration and awareness of these topics is period.
We reviewed the steps taken to contain known issues and to becoming ever more a part of everyday life for the Groups mitigate against the effects of future emerging risks.
We observe a growing peer culture of being curious, briefed on a revised approach to corporate HS&E auditing and speaking up and challenging any potentially unsafe, unhealthy, assurance, which had been adapted to make this more focused, unethical or wasteful behaviour.
The Committee and I look forward effective and efficient.
to supporting and seeing this culture develop in 2017 and beyond.
The Committee reviewed the overall HS&E learning and In particular, the Committee will oversee the implementation of development programme, and were satisfied that a comprehensive all outstanding recommendations made by Lord Gold and monitor enhancement of the programme through standardised global HS&E compliance with the Groups obligations under the DPAs.
training had been endorsed and was underway.
This included working with a selected training provider to produce new courses to close identified gaps, as well as making existing modules Sir Frank Chapman available in more languages.
Chairman of the Safety & Ethics Committee In October, a Group-wide HS&E week was held with all employees encouraged to take part in activities and discussions, with very positive feedback having been received.
In December, we received an update on implementation of the Groups new HS&E management system, which provides more capability to support risk identification and reporting.
This is being deployed across all of the businesses.
We also maintained our oversight of the Groups occupational health strategy, with further increase in the level of focus and resources being applied in promoting health risk management, resilience and wellbeing among the workforce.
We are committed to creating workplaces that enhance the wellbeing of our people.
At the end of 2016, 35% of our sites have achieved a LiveWell Award, recognising the steps they have taken to create an environment that supports employee wellbeing, where our people are motivated and enabled to make healthy choices and lead healthier lives.
