OTHER INFORMATION Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 SUSTAINABILITY ASSURANCE STATEMENT 183 Sustainability assurance statement To: The stakeholders of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc SUMMARY OF WORK PERFORMED Independent limited assurance statement As part of its independent verification, Bureau Veritas undertook INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES OF WORK the following activities: Bureau Veritas UK Limited Bureau Veritas has been engaged by 1.
Assessed the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria for the Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Rolls-Royce to provide limited assurance Selected Information: of selected sustainability performance indicators for inclusion in its 2016 Annual Report and website.
Conducted interviews with relevant personnel of Rolls-Royce: to the related information included within the scope of work 3.
Carried out nine site visits, selected employing a risk-based described below.
approach, in the UK, US, Germany, Italy and Singapore: SELECTED INFORMATION 4.
R eviewed the data collection and consolidation processes used The scope of our work was limited to assurance over the following to compile the Selected Information, including assessing information included within Rolls-Royces 2016 Annual Report the assumptions made, the data scope and reporting boundaries: Report for the period 1 of January to 31 of December 2016 the 5.
Reviewed documentary evidence produced by Rolls-Royce: Selected Information : Energy consumption: 6.
Agreed a selection of the Selected Information to the Scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas GHG emissions: corresponding source documentation: and Total reportable injury TRI rate: and 7.
Re-performed aggregation calculations of the Selected Information.
The number of people reached through the science, technology, engineering and mathematics STEM education outreach CONCLUSION programmes.
On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Selected REPORTING CRITERIA Information has not been properly prepared, in all material The Selected Information needs to be read and understood respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria.
together with the basis of reporting document, as set out at STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE, INTEGRITY AND COMPETENCE www.
Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specialises in quality, environmental, health, safety and social LIMITATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS accountability with over 185 years history.
Its assurance team has Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification of extensive experience in conducting verification over environmental, information relating to: social, ethical and health and safety information, systems Activities outside the defined verification period: and and processes.
Other information included in the Report.
1 Bureau Veritas operates a certified Quality Management System This limited assurance engagement relies on a risk-based selected which complies with the requirements of ISO 9001:2008, and sample of sustainability data and the associated limitations that accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control this entails.
This independent statement should not be relied upon including documented policies and procedures regarding to detect all errors, omissions or misstatements that may exist.
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and RESPONSIBILITIES applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
This preparation and presentation of the Selected Information in the Bureau Veritas has implemented and applies a Code of Ethics, which Report are the sole responsibility of the management of Rolls-Royce.
meets the requirements of the International Federation of 2 Inspections Agencies IFIA across the business to ensure that its Bureau Veritas was not involved in the drafting of the Report or of employees maintain integrity, objectivity, professional competence the Reporting Criteria.
Our responsibilities were to: and due care, confidentiality, professional behaviour and high obtain limited assurance about whether the Selected Information ethical standards in their day-to-day business activities.
has been prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria: form an independent conclusion based on the assurance The assurance team for this work does not have any involvement in procedures performed and evidence obtained: and any other Bureau Veritas projects with Rolls-Royce.
report our conclusions to the Directors of Rolls-Royce.
Bureau Veritas UK Limited London ASSESSMENT STANDARD 2 February 2017 We performed our work in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information effective for assurance reports dated on or after 15 December 2015, and in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
1 Certificate of Registration FS 34143 issued by BSI Assurance UK Limited.
2 International Federation of Inspection Agencies Compliance Code Third Edition.
