Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information We engage with our customers to assess how we are doing, improve service levels and evolve our products, so we can continue to be Corporate responsibility their provider of choice.
Through two ongoing research initiatives, we speak with around 600 businesses and 3,000 consumers every month.
We carry out postcall surveys and an Online Satisfaction Survey to learn about customers experiences when they interact Our corporate responsibility CR strategy is an integral part with us.
of realising our core strategic priorities.
The objectives at the Our own people can also tell us how heart of our business and corporate responsibility strategies customerfocused our products and are the same to generate sustainable shareholder value.
We use our annual Employee Survey to ask employees four questions to understand what they think about the customer experience.
This year we achieved a Customer Focus Score of 67 out of 100.
Winning Defending Growing in CR strategy objectives in parcels letters new areas Recognising and fixing problems in our service is an important element of being Delivering economic and social benefit to the communities we serve easy to do business with.
We strive to get things right the first time.
But in an operation where we deliver around 16billion Driving colleague advocacy of the Group and its community role items a year, sometimes problems arise.
We were disappointed to see that the Managing the environmental impacts of our business number of complaints we have received andoperations has increased from 452,538 in 201415 to 476,040 in 201516.
We are prioritising our Delivering our transformation responsibly efforts to tackle the root causes of these complaints, as outlined in the Chief Executive Officers review.
Communicating our management of corporate responsibilities openly and transparently Customer Focus, business customer satisfaction and complaints are three of the four customer KPIs included on the Corporate Balanced Scorecard for 201516, which is linked to managers remuneration.
For more information, see page 75.
Our CR strategy comprises five key Our customers objectives.
They help us to deliver our Our strategy is underpinned by putting the Our people corporate strategy, as set out in the customer at the heart of everything we do.
We report progress against Labour standards Ipsos Moris Corporate Image Survey found our corporate responsibility objectives Royal Mail is a people business.
We are one 78 per cent of our customers say they are under the areas of Customer, People, of the largest employers in the UK with one in favourable to us, while 86 per cent are Community, Environment and Suppliers.
every 175 employees in the country working satisfied with the service we provide, putting Further information will be available online for Royal Mail2.
1 us ahead of most companies surveyed.
in the 201516 Corporate Responsibility CR Report.
We are committed to providing the best labour Our customers, both business and consumer, standards in our industry.
All our permanent want convenience and value from their Measuring our progress employees earn above the Living Wage.
We have introduced a We are independently rated as a leading range of new measures to make sending and responsible business.
We have been named Engagement and culture receiving items easier for our customers.
global leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Employee engagement is fundamental to Since October 2014, more than 30,000 Indices for the second year in a row in developing our customerfocused culture.
registered users have used our new Click the transportation and transportation Engagement is one of the four peoplerelated & Drop service, which integrates data from infrastructure industry.
As the topscoring KPIs on our Corporate Balanced Scorecard.
online shopping platforms to make it quicker company, Royal Mail has been included in Our Employee Survey helps us identify the and easier to buy postage and print address both the Dow Jones Sustainability World areas where we are doing well and those labels online.
We have launched a trial for Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability where we need to improve.
The engagement SMEs and online marketplace sellers in Europe Index.
score has increased by one point to 57. the North West, offering next day parcel 67percent of our people say they understand collection on their doorstep.
Royal Mail was included in the FTSE4Good how their jobs contribute to the success of Global Index in 2015, scoring 4.1 out of Royal Mail.
5 in the criteria, with a ranking in the th 96 percentile.
1 2 Ipsos MORI Corporate Image Survey Winter 2015 Cebr research, conducted for Royal Mail in May 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 37 Royal Mail plc | Corporate responsibility During the year, we worked closely with our During 201516, we once again succeeded in committed to being an equal opportunities unions on the development of new values reducing our Lost Time Accident Frequency employer and we proactively seek to recruit for Royal Mail, which put the customer at Rate, now down to 0.49.
The number of people from socially excluded groups.
the heart of everything we do.
We measure accidents and days lost due to accidents fell to Itis our policy to provide opportunities for the success of our cultural change journey 8,040 and 23,038, which amounted to a saving our employees based on an individuals through the incorporation of a Cultural of over 1 million.
performance and skills, with no discrimination.
Index within our annual employee survey.
OurCultural Index measure, which tracks It is with great regret that we report two We continue to make strong progress in how we well we are embedding our values people lost their lives in connection with our improving gender diversity at Royal Mail, and and behaviours, was 48 out of 100. activities in the UK in the past year.
Both we are proud to be named as a Times Top 50 fatalities were associated with road traffic Employer for Women.
At our Board and senior Creating a culture of ownership collisions involving our vehicles.
We liaise management grades, we have relatively high The transition that the vast majority of closely with the relevant authorities and gender diversity.
At Board level, 38per cent our people have made from employees undertake our own detailed investigations to of members are female, compared with a to shareholders is an important part establish the root cause of each accident and, FTSE 100 average of 26 per cent.
At senior of the Royal Mails transformation.
where possible, to determine what lessons management level, 29 per cent of employees Itgives them a personal, financial stake can be learned.
We have a fatal and serious are female, compared with 15 per cent in in the customerfocused culture that accident standard and protocol, which tracks operational functions.
We are committed to we are building.
This is discussed at Board improving the gender balance across all areas Government disposed of all of its remaining level and is communicated across the Group.
Following a successful pilot shareholding in Royal Mail meaning that programme, we rolled out a balanced shortlist the Company is now 100 per cent privately We responded to an increase in the level of approach to recruitment during 201516, owned.
Eligible fulltime employees have sick absence during 201415 by launching which has seen an increase in the number of received a maximum of 832Free Shares, an Attendance Management Taskforce and women hired to fill frontline operational roles, regardless of grade.
Thisis one of the rolling out a new system of occupational from 28 per cent to 32 per cent.
largest free employee stakes of any major health management for mental health UK privatisation.
This is in addition to our and musculoskeletal cases.
A dedicated Royal Mails ethnic profile is broadly popular Save As You Earn SAYE scheme, occupational health adviser supports both the representative of the UK population.
Around which launched in September 2014 and employee and their manager throughout the 10.2 per cent of our employees declare resulted in more than 34,000 employees absence.
In 201516, we have dealt with 3,616 themselves to be from ethnic minority setting aside money from their salary for cases in this way, cutting the length of absence backgrounds.
We work with Business in the options to buy Royal Mail shares.
by an average 18 days for musculoskeletal Communitys BITC Opportunity Now and issues and 23 days for cases which involved Race for Opportunity programmes, which Industrial relations an individuals mental health.
As a result, in promote best practice in equal opportunities.
We took several key steps in advancing 201516, days lost due to sickness reduced by initiatives under the Agenda for Growth 8.7 per cent compared with 201415. agreement during 201516.
We created a new, unified Conduct Policy that is We are prioritising mental health to further more focused on informal resolution reduce sick absence and ensure our people and incorporates a new approach to are supported.
Moya Greene signed the precautionary suspension, which should only Time to Change pledge with the CMA Unite be used in serious incidents.
In 2015, 140 of our people attended stress awareness workshops and 55 We continued the rollout of our Together managers participated in a pilot, Mental Health for Growth joint training programme, First Aid, to help deal with crisis situations which forms a key part of our Agenda for should they occur.
Our programme Feeling Growth agreement with our unions and First Class aims to remove the stigma and has now reached over 6,000 managers and raise awareness of mental health conditions union representatives.
We partnered with the Mental Health Foundation to produce a Health and safety series of five mental health awareness training The safety and wellbeing of our workforce films, which have been watched by over is an enduring priority for us and is crucial 4,500managers.
A focus on wellbeing engages colleagues with the business and its Diversity future, reduces the costs and disruption of Royal Mail employs a diverse mix of people sick absence and makes it easier to build our that reflects the communities we serve.
3 Safety metrics 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 Our safety goal is to reduce the number 4 Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate 0.49 0.704 0.81 1.17 of accidents to zero and reduce our sick absence rate, commitments that are driven Sick absence % 4.51 4.74 4.34 4.33 by specific safety KPIs in our Corporate Balanced Scorecard.
3 Data represents UKPIL safety performance 4 201415 figure restated from 0.67 to 0.70 and 201314 figure restated from 0.77 to 0.81 due to a change in reporting methodology 38 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information businesses to offer greater flexibility to UKPIL GLS their customers.
Gender distribution number Female Male Female Male of people Overall, Royal Mails UK businesses directly contribute 5.6billion to UK GDP and a Royal Mail plc Board 3 5 n a n a further 5.2billion through indirect and Senior Management 686 1,651 36 242 induced impacts.
Together they equate to about 0.57 per cent of UK GDP.
Management 1,399 5,441 2,783 2,314 Administration 1,495 1,016 Our community investment programme seeks to build on the social impact our Operational 19,030 108,642 1,768 6,848 business already has through delivering the Universal Service.
In 201516, Royal Mail The Board represents Royal Mail Group contributed 6.7 million to charities, good As a Disability Two Ticks employer, we The launch of Welcome to Royal Mail, causes and schemes for disadvantaged welcome job applications from candidates with our new induction programme, which groups.
Our people raised a further a disability or health condition.
Approximately reflects our new business values 3.1million for charities and good causes eight per cent of Royal Mail employees identify and supports our aim of building a across the UK.
themselves as having adisability, compared customerfocused culture.
with 16 per cent of workingage adults in the Our two year partnership with Charity of Our new Manual Parcel Scanning MPS UK5.
We make reasonable adjustments to the the Year, the Stroke Association, saw the training, which prepared an estimated workplace to support employees who become creation of the Operations Fundraising 15,000employees for using our new disabled, and provide additional training Challenge.
This three month campaign saw PDAs and Finger Scanners in our where required.
an estimated 10,000 employees support mailprocessingunits.
fundraising activities and was shortlisted th We are a member of Stonewalls Diversity The 500 Royal Mail leader completing by the prestigious Business Charity Awards Champions programme, which campaigns our Executive Leadership Development as an outstanding example of employee for equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual and Programme ELDP, which has been engagement.
It helped us pass the 1million transgender LGBT people.
We have more developed with Oxford Sad Business mark in fundraising, when our matched work to do to improve our overall ranking in School and has now received the EFMD giving was included, making good progress the Stonewall Equality Index, but we were Excellence in Practice Gold Award 2015. towards our fundraising target of 2million.
pleased to see our activities resulted in a The partnership is also raising awareness A further 1,856 employees completing 110per cent increase in our score.
about the importance of good health to our Customer and You training course, reduce the risk of stroke.
which builds skills for firstclass customer We are committed to dignity and respect in our service in our Enquiry Offices.
workplace and are determined to eliminate We are also using the partnership and the any form of behaviour that undermines our The launch of the My Future careers reach of our business to raise awareness people and their ability to flourish and thrive at portal is designed to make selfdirected of the risk factors leading to stroke.
We have worked with our unions learning more accessible to all Royal Mail Stroke Association visits our sites to to develop a new campaign, We can sort it employees.
The portal has so far been used measure colleagues' blood pressures and out, which highlights the damage that a lack by more than 25,000 of our people.
GLS raise awareness about healthy lifestyles.
of respect and not listening can cause.
After is working to embed similarly structured More than 10,000 blood pressure readings just six months, the film had been watched approaches to employee development.
In have been completed since the start of the more than 5,500times, across 85 per cent of Denmark, for example, every employee is partnership, marking solid progress against our sites.
invited to participate in an annual personal our target of 15,000. development interview with their manager.
Learning and development Royal Mails employees engage with We are committed to the training and We expanded our apprenticeship programme communities across the UK on a daily basis.
development of our people at all levels of to include Finance in addition to Project This local knowledge and understanding is Royal Mail, providing them with opportunities Management, Vehicle Technician and a powerful asset, which we are drawing on to learn new skills, and equipping them to Engineering apprenticeships.
Fifty apprentices through our Missing People partnership.
help deliver our business strategy.
joined our programme in September 2015.
Since the beginning of the partnership, The Telegraphs Top Apprenticeships Careers we have distributed 70 alerts for highrisk We invested over 20.5 million in training List for 2015 named Royal Mail as one of the missing people to our network of around during 201516, delivering the equivalent Top 10 service and retailer employers in the 139,000 people.
We built on our partnership of 90,000 training days.
by contributing 50,000 to fund the national this investment more closely on the Child Rescue Alert system, which sends transformation of our business through Our communities out alerts when a childs life is in imminent an updated training and development Royal Mail helps keep communities danger.
This contribution will support the programme.
In 201516, our learning and connected, no matter where they are in the operation of the system for one full year.
Nearly 80 per cent of residences are within one kilometre of a Royal Mail access We also launched a new freepost service point, making it easier for customers to designed to encourage Missing People to 5 https: www.
uk government statistics disability receive and send their items.
Local Collect, take the first step in getting back in touch factsandfigures our click and collect service, remains 6 the largest network in the UK, enabling Cebr research, conducted for Royal Mail in May 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 39 Royal Mail plc | Corporate responsibility with their families.
Freepost Missing People and Environment SHE management supply our buildings and systems and help enables missing people to send a message system.
Wehave also worked to align this deliver mail.
Managing these relationships to their families, and to do so without being management system more closely with correctly is essential for us to compete traced if they choose.
As a effectively and deliver the right experiences result, we now have groupwide standards for our customers, while broadening the Our people continued to support a range for energy use in our buildings, waste, water, economic opportunities that we create.
They donated 2.4million fuel and carbon management.
We have UK, we spent nearly 2.5 billion on goods through our awardwinning payroll giving maintained our accreditation to ISO 14001 and services in 201516 from more than scheme.
They also fundraised for charities, for Parcelforce Worldwide and Royal Mail.
which Royal Mail supported with nearly Currently, all of our Parcelforce Worldwide 557,000 in matched funding.
sites are accredited, as well as 14 Royal Mail We expect all our suppliers to adhere to our sites and all GLS sites.
Responsible Procurement Code, confirmation Royal Mail has a longstanding commitment to of which is required when registering as helping young people develop across the UKs A new Environment Policy, which outlines a supplier.
The Code requires suppliers to communities.
We provide materials to teachers our commitment to managing environmental maintain high standards of social, ethical and and students through our online magazine, issues, is scheduled to be published in environmental conduct, including complying Teachers Post, which is scheduled to be 201617.
Our Environment Policy can be with the Ten Principles of the United Nations published eight times a year.
During 201516, accessed online at: www.
Suppliers must also Teachers Post resources were downloaded com responsibility policies.
comply with our mail security procedures and on more than 500 occasions, reaching an our approach to antibribery and corruption.
In August 2015, we The table below sets out our Group carbon By setting out our requirements clearly launched a new partnership with the charity dioxide equivalent C0 e emissions for and working with our suppliers to meet 2 Career Ready in which 66 Royal Mail employees 201516.
In 201516, our total UK carbon them, we can help to spread responsible are mentoring 1619 yearolds for the world footprint decreased by 2.7 per cent compared business practice.
On a normalised basis, emissions decreased by 1.6 per cent per We expanded our Responsible Procurement Our environment 1million revenue.
Our target is to achieve a Code in 201516.
Suppliers are required to The scale and scope of the Universal 20per cent reduction in our UKPIL emissions promote fair participation and equality of Service makes managing our use of natural including Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 202021, opportunity for all their employees and job resources a commercial and environmental compared with a 200405 baseline.
Emissions applicants, and to provide an environment imperative.
We have the largest vehicle fleet are still down by 16.8 per cent against the free from discrimination or harassment.
In in the UK and maintain sites all around the 200405 baseline, but our target remains very addition, standards are being developed on country.
We manage our environmental challenging due to parcel volumes increasing safety, health and environment, which will be impacts by focusing on energy use, waste, and the length of time and investment needed implemented in 201617. water and engaging with customers and to make any changes to fleet.
Prioritising efficiency and reducing Ethical principles are embedded in the waste will helps us cut operating costs, We diverted 86 per cent of waste from landfill Partner Code used by GLS Germany.
The engage our people and build a sustainable last year through a combination of recycling Code requires suppliers working with GLS to and competitive business.
and waste to energy initiatives.
We also adhere to principles relating to antibribery recorded a reduction of two per cent in our and corruption and health and safety.
Our environment strategy and performance use of water during the year.
is overseen by the Environment Governance We seek to spread the positive economic Board EGB.
During 201516, the EGB Our suppliers impacts of our supply chain by promoting has taken the lead in streamlining our Royal Mails supply chain is an important diversity in our supply chain and making approach to environmental management part of the impact our business has on contracts accessible to suppliers of all sizes.
and embedding our World Class Mail our communities and on the environment.
Of the suppliers that were awarded contracts WCM system within our Safety, Health Oursuppliers provide vehicles, manage and in 201516, 25 per cent were SMEs.
Data has been 2 consolidated according to the financial control approach.
We have reported all material Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for which we consider ourselves responsible and exclude immaterial sources such as fugitive emissions from air conditioning in owned vehicles ii UKPIL CO e emissions for 201415 have been restated to 746,500 tonnes, due to improvements in invoicing 2 iii CO e emissions have been assured by EY, except for Scope 2 Marketbased figures 2 iv Totals may differ due to rounding 40 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Human rights The Strategic report was approved by the We are committed to upholding and Board on 18May 2016. respecting human rights.
In addition to obeying the laws, rules and regulations of every country in which we operate, we support the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization Moya Greene Fundamental Conventions, covering freedom Chief Executive Officer of association, the abolition of forced labour, 18 May 2016 equality and the elimination of child labour.
During 201516, we undertook a review of our business against the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights with the support of independent advisers Matthew Lester Corporate Citizenship.
Despite the review Chief Finance Officer noting that Royal Mails human rights 18 May 2016 footprint is low, we are strengthening measures to ensure human rights are protected across all our operations.
We have measures in place to protect against modern slavery, which will be set out in our 201516 CR Report.
We are reviewing these measures to ensure we continue to minimise the potential for slavery and human trafficking in our business and supply chain.
We will make our formal Modern Slavery Act statement available in accordance with the Act and within the statutory timescales.
Our commitments and expectations both for ourselves and for our suppliers are set out in our Corporate Responsibility Policy and our Responsible Procurement Code of Conduct www.
Our taxation principles Royal Mail has adopted a set of tax principles.
Our Taxation Principles can be accessed online at: www.
com responsibility policies The pentacycle, originally invented in 1882, was tested for both postal and telegraph delivery work.
In February 2014, quad bikes operating on the island of Kerrera were replaced by an allterrain utility vehicle.
com 500years to find out more.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 41
