T N E M P O L E V E D D N A N G I S E D R E T A I L S L A I R E F T I A L L M I N W G A R A N D RPC Group Plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR SUSTAINABILITY STORY Like any responsible business, creating a sustainable future for generations tocome is a core commitment of the RPC Group.
Sustainability underscores all of the Group activities from the products thatare manufactured to the way that operations are run.
RPC works to ensure that all environmental responsibilities are met and aims tohelp customers achieve theirs.
THE PLASTIC PRODUCT LIFECYCLE RPCs commitment to sustainability is evident throughout the plastic products lifecycle.
While the greatest impact can be achieved during the design and manufacturing stages, positive steps can also be made to contribute to environmental performance at every stage, from efficient transportation and effective product protection to collaborative initiatives for re-use and recycling.
For more information on how our business model is key to RPC throughout all stages of our sustainability, see the business model section on pages 18 to 19.
Closed loop process Responsible reduction in waste procurement to landfill Research & development Sustainable raw of new materials such materialsource as biopolymers Consideration of Lightweighting target demographic Use of post Reduction in food consumer recyclate waste Product protection Recyclability SUSTAINABILITY Reduce Increased shelf life Energy consumption Product protection Waste Water consumption Carbon emissions Product protection Efficient transportation D I S T L R A I B S O U T P I S I O D G N N N I O L I T C A Y R C E E N R I C N M I A E S N U U - F E A R C T U N R I O N I T G C E L L O C L A S O P S I D E S U Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 See the biopolymer case study below for more Substitution PRODUCT DESIGN, information on some of RPCs solutions in this field.
DEVELOPMENT AND Plastics robustness and reliability at light weight INNOVATION make it the ideal alternative to many traditional Recycled Content materials, ensuring safety and practicality are not Lightweighting The use of recycled plastic, sourced from either compromised in the achievement of a reduced The light weight of plastics makes a significant a post-consumer or post-industrial origin can carbon footprint and improved sustainability profile.
contribution to raw material usage, transport also improve the environmental impact of plastic efficiencies and can contribute to a reduction in the For the packaging market, RPC has developed a products.
The replacement of virgin plastic with carbon footprint of a product.
number of packs which provide a lighter weight recycled material diverts used plastics from landfill and safer alternative to heavier materials for and incineration and also reduces the demand for At RPC investments have been made in raw applications such as sauces, baby food and virgin polymers.
materials, tooling, process changes and machinery catering ingredients.
More than 50% of all products to be able to manufacture lighter packs and The Groups work in this area has included the manufactured in Europe are packed in plastics.
products that offer the same or improved technical development of products incorporating recycled According to weight, however, plastics account performance delivering enhanced sustainability PP, for example in paint cans, with some ranges for only 17% of the total of packaging materials benefits while ensuring products are still fit-forcurrently containing 25% recycled content.
The use of plastic for packaging can reduce purpose throughout all stages of the supply chain.
Recycled PET for food, drink and personal care the environmental impacts of packs by reducing packaging is used, as is recycled HDPE for industrial resource consumption, reducing carbon footprint Product Protection containers, house and garden applications.
in comparison to heavier packs and improving Product protection is a key role of many of RPCs The Group continues to research and develop ways transport impacts.
plastic solutions and can make an important in which either to increase current recycled content contribution to preserving products and For some market areas RPC has also developed levels in products or to develop new applications reducing waste.
applications where oil based plastics that can use recycled plastics.
have been substituted with biopolymers.
Food waste is a global problem with around The use of biopolymers can improve environmental 1.3 billion tonnes of food wasted every year all performance of plastic products over the world.
RPCs food market solutions can through the use help to reduce food waste through design features of renewable such as re-sealable packs, individual or smaller size materials.
packaging that allows effective portion control and barrier bottles, jars and trays that prolong shelf life.
In many non-food markets, plastics robustness and longevity are also ideal for keeping a wide variety of BIOPOLYMER products safer for longer and avoiding unnecessary waste for markets such as paint, DIY, personal care RPC Promens Consumer Nordics and RPC Promens Industrial have both developed and cosmetics.
packaging applications that utilise bio-material sourced from sugar cane.
RPC Promens Consumer Nordics has developed a one litre milk bottle made entirely from a RPC also manufactures long lasting bulk non-oil based biopolymer mixed with a special mineral filler.
This reduces the amount of polymer transport and storage solutions for both food required for each bottle without impacting on its strength and performance.
The bottle has been and non-food products such as seafood, selected by leading Swedish dairy company Sknemejerier for its range of non-homogenised milk.
meat, recycling and by-products that maintain Sustainability is a vital consideration to Sknemejerier who sought to choose a solution with minimal protection of the product throughout the impact on the environment for their products.
RPC Promens Industrial has developed a green version of its Politainer.
The green Politainer manufactured using material from a renewable resource reduces the consumption of oil and gas, while the growth of the sugar cane also helps to remove CO from the atmosphere.
2 The result is a solution where over 80% of the finished pack comes from renewable resources.
It has been certified by the London Bioscience Innovation Centre, giving users the option to use the Im Green logo to demonstrate their sustainability credentials to their customers.
The green Politainer also benefits from the original Politainer design that delivers a 50-75% material reduction compared to rigid containers, while empty packs are shipped flat packed, which minimises the impact of transportation.
RPC Group Plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Lightweighting benefits are seen at other stages MANUFACTURING OUR Electricity usage per tonne KWH T of the packaging lifecycle such as reduced raw DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL -1% material consumption and lower transportation IMPACTS 1,981 impacts.
Alongside lightweighting the Group Energy Efficiency strategy to increase the production of higher added 2,028 Plastic conversion is by nature an energy intensive 2,014 1,996 2,001 1,981 value products such as multilayer packaging for process that represents a considerable cost to the the food market and complex packaging for the business.
Energy consumption also represents the pharmaceutical and healthcare markets increases majority of direct environmental impacts from the the complexity of the manufacturing processes Groups manufacturing operations: this can be seen which partly offsets energy efficiency measures that 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 in the greenhouse gas emissions reporting below.
RPC is continually working to improve the energy Water Efficiency efficiency of manufacturing processes through Water is an important part of the manufacturing Water usage per tonne L T efficiency ranging from lighting alterations to -5% process, primarily as a cooling agent.
replacing older manufacturing machines with more 702 Improvements have been made across the Group to energy efficient models.
Over the last couple of reduce water usage or to re-use it within a closedyears an increasing number of RPCs manufacturing 894 loop system which reduces evaporative losses.
737 737 facilities have been accredited with ISO 50001 708 702 Energy Management System.
This accreditation This year the Group water consumption per tonne provides the framework to improve energy has decreased in comparison to 2015 due to the efficiency through target setting and increased continued focus in this area.
measurement and monitoring of energy use.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Waste and Recycling This year the Group kWh tonne electricity Polymer is a valuable resource and manufacturing consumption has decreased in comparison to sites operate at a high efficiency in terms of last year.
The Group undertakes a number of salvaging raw materials.
Any material that cannot energy saving initiatives in its manufacturing be re-used is segregated and collected for recycling.
sites, including replacing machinery with more The same applies to many other materials that are energy efficient equivalents.
However offsetting handled throughout the Group such as scrap metal, this the Group strategy to lightweight packaging cardboard boxes tubes, wooden pallets and shrink adversely affects the electricity KPI as the same wrap.
Good progress is being made across the amount of energy is required to run the processing Group on the reduction of waste disposal.
machines, but with a lower throughput of materials.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTING Methodology Included Activities Emissions Emissions were calculated on an operational GHG emissions from the purchase of electricity Absolute emissions have increased due to control approach using The Greenhouse and combustion of fuel.
acquisitions in the period and the inclusion of Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and the full year impact of previous acquisitions.
Reporting Standard with additional guidance The intensity ratio has decreased as a result of and emissions factors derived from DEFRA and increased focus on electricity and fuel usage.
DECCs UK Government conversion factors for Company Reporting.
Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO2e 2016 2015 Scope 1 emissions Fuel combustion and refrigerant losses 11,196 7,809 Scope 2 Emissions Electricity 369,630 287,859 Total GHG Emissions 380,825 295,668 Intensity ratio: Tonne of CO e per 1m of revenue 231 242 2 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 ISO ACCREDITATION UNDERLINES  Over 29 RPC operations, in countries including Germany, Denmark and the UK, have achieved ISO 50001 certification in order to implement energy management processes intothe day to day running of their facilities.
The ISO 50001 accreditation provides the framework to achieve energy efficiency through thedevelopment of policy, fixing targets for energy reduction and the monitoring and measuring of energy usage in order to analyse progress towards targets.
The energy management systems also involves regular reviews to monitor the progress ofallenergy initiatives and provides training for employees, along with general awareness building throughout the sites on the importance of energy use and the needfor greater efficiency.
Accreditation to ISO 50001 demonstrates RPCs commitment to reduce its environmental impact and run efficient operations.
In coming years it is expected that more RPC sites will achieve certification to ISO 50001 to incorporate systemised energy management into their operations.
AWARD IN RECOGNITION OF  RPC Superfos Blackburn in the UK has received a Greener Path Award for achieving Zero Waste to Landfill in 2015.
It took RPC Superfos Blackburn 15 months to achieve zero waste to landfill having started with over 85% of waste being disposed of via landfill.
In partnership with ACM Environmental, RPC Superfos Blackburn has now received a Greener Path Award for their zero waste achievement which has not only reduced the environmental impact associated with waste but helps to reduce waste management costs also.
Prior to the start of the waste management project in October 2013, more than 350 tonnes of waste from the site was disposed of via landfill.
By the end of 2014 the site sent no waste to landfill and has continued to successfully use alternative and less expensive disposal methods for all of the waste from site.
A key to the success was to employ different waste processing methods and to engage employees to understand the consequences of poor waste management and to change attitudes and behaviour to take waste disposal seriously.
RPC Group Plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Retail and Use Stages DISTRIBUTION, RETAIL AND USE The primary role of packaging within the retail environment is to protect, secure and deliver The distribution, retail and use stages of the the product contents.
The Group strives to offer lifecycle are an area where RPC has a minimal customers the most appropriate sustainable direct influence on environmental impacts.
At these solution for their product in order to minimise lifecycle stages both RPCs packaging and nonenvironmental impact at this stage of the supply packaging applications are handled predominantly chain.
The foundations for this have been achieved by the retail supply chain and the consumer, at the design, development and innovation stage as however, the Group can still have some control over detailed on page 37, which determines the impact the environmental impacts at these phases.
throughout the rest of the supply chain.
Distribution At the retail and use stage of the packaging Transport of finished products is an area over which lifecycle, product loss, particularly in the food RPC does not have a significant amount of control sector, is a major environmental impact.
Each year, as it is dependent on where the goods need to worldwide, a third of all food is thrown away or lost, be delivered.
The Group is focused on ways of while at the same time around 842 million people improving distribution, for example, by increasing are suffering from hunger.
In 2013, RPC joined the full loads of deliveries, identifying areas where back SAVE FOOD initiative, a joint campaign organised by loads could be used in the transport network so that the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United vehicles are not empty on return journeys and coNations and Messe Dsseldorf to highlight and fight ordinating logistics within geographic regions.
global food loss and waste.
The initiative now has over 100 members from throughout the food supply chain who, through networking events and ongoing dialogue and discussion, aim to develop solutions totackle the problems of food waste.
Other examples of reduced environmental impacts in the use stages of plastic products include the RPC Splast containers for bulk handling of products.
These durable containers provide light weight solutions for the transport of produce such as seafood and meat in PE containers that protect the product through its supply chain.
Also for many of RPCs non-packaging products such as heavy vehicle body parts and fuel tanks, plastic offers a usage advantage allowing lightweighting of plastic parts which can improve both vehicle fuel efficiency and space utilisation due to the flexibility of plastic part design.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41 The Group communicates its sustainability END-OF-LIFE SOLUTIONS THE SUPPLY CHAIN performance to investors and customers through APPROACH TO The Groups desire to improve the performance of external organisations such as the Carbon SUSTAINABILITY the plastic products it manufactures at its facilities Disclosure Project which encourages disclosure and does not end when the item leaves manufacturing As one part of the supply chain the Group improvements in relation to carbon emissions and sites.
RPC has taken a proactive stance with recognises that in relation to sustainability it the Ecovadis platform which provides participating customers in designing packaging to optimise cannot always act alone and as such actively customers information on the Groups sustainability re-use and recyclability as well as to ensure participates as a member or partner of a number of performance in relation to the environment, end-of-life collection of packaging.
organisations which span the whole supply chain.
labour practices, health and safety and fair This participation allows the Group to keep up to The Group is keen to promote the collection of business practices.
date on developments in the latest fields, offer its post-consumer packaging and non-packaging items expertise in design, manufacturing and engineering for recycling into new formats and as such RPC has to these groups and also to form collaborative been working with the recycling industry for many partnerships to develop sustainable solutions years, collaborating with organisations such as the for products.
Waste & Resources Action Programme WRAP and Recoup to research and develop the use of post-consumer recycled PCR material and postindustrial recycled PIR material back into plastic products.
The ongoing Pledge 4 Plastics campaign, launched in September 2014, is an example of supply chain collaboration on the issue of plastics recycling which the Group has been involved in to promote an increase in plastic recycling.
The use of PCR and PIR diverts end-of-life plastic from landfill and also reduces energy demand in comparison with the sourcing of virgin raw materials.
If it doesnt make economic or environmental sense to recycle then the Group supports energy recovery from plastics through waste incineration.
Litter and marine litter is also an area of increasing focus within the plastics industry.
Although packaging comprises only a small percentage of litter with most attributable to chewing gum and cigarette ends it is an area where the sector aims to reduce the environmental impact of packaging.
RPC is a signatory to Operation Clean Sweep which aims to reduce the leakage of plastic pellets from plastic conversion facilities.
PLASTIC WHALE RPC also supports work on litter through the various organisations and trade associations PET Power, part of the RPC Group based in the Netherlands, has that it is a member of.
sponsored a unique initiative in Amsterdam that has seen the creation of a canal boat made entirely from plastic waste.
The Plastic Whale Foundation www.
org is the brainchild of Marius Smit, head of a professional plastic fishing company which organises activity days during which companies remove plastic waste from the Amsterdam canals.
The material collected is then sorted and all usable items are incorporated into the manufacture of boat parts such as the hull, floor, rudder and finishing strips.
To date, six boats have been produced and are sailing on the Amsterdam Canals.
The Plastic Whale initiative is a fun and engaging way to highlight the issue of litter, , and to ensure that the  plastic is realised.
RPC Group Plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued All of our sites entered wholeheartedly into our HEALTH AND SAFETY ETHICS safety week activities in October, our new sites We continue to put safety foremost in everything The Group aims to act responsibly and with were particularly inventive in their safety activities, that we do and we strive to develop a perpetual integrity, respecting the laws and regulations of all including participative training courses such safety culture, in which each of our colleagues the countries within which it operates as well as as basic first aid, firefighting, driver awareness contributes to make our operations safer places internationally accepted standards of responsible and manual handling.
Employees families were towork and to visit.
The Group requires high involved in competitions and factory visits to help us standards of professional and ethical conduct from Developing such a culture is a continuous process to make the link between safety at work with safety all employees, officers and directors.
These policies and as our business grows, we recognise the at home.
are now set out in a Code of Business Conduct importance of transferring and adopting best We were pleased to begin our Safety Climate which can be read in full on the Groups website practice.
The addition of a large number of new Survey during safety week.
This took the form of an www.
sites to the Group during the 2015 16 financial year on-line survey, open to our employees throughout presented us with the challenge of transferring Each business within the Group is expected to the Group, enabling us to understand how our our culture and requirements for safety as well as operate with policies and procedures which are colleagues feel about our commitment to safety, presenting us with the opportunity of learning from consistent with the Groups values and standards.
the implementation and use of our safety systems the knowledge and procedures residing within the In all dealings, all employees and other persons and procedures, and to feed back their specific acquired businesses.
acting on behalf of the Group are expected to: comments related to our management of safety As might be expected, the processes and practices in their own department, in their sites and in the engage in honest and ethical conduct, including in some of our acquired businesses fell short of our Group as a whole.
the ethical handling of actual or apparent exacting requirements and improving the prevailing conflicts of interest between personal and We are using this to help us to recognise areas health and safety performance of some of these professional relationships: where our colleagues have told us we can improve businesses has been challenging.
However the and it is part of a five year process to measure the maintain effective procedures to prevent quality and ability of our new colleagues and their development of our safety culture as we listen confidential information being misused or used willingness to improve the safety of their sites to, learn from and act upon the suggestions and for personal gain: has been impressive and we fully expect to see observations of all of our colleagues.
improvements in our overall accident frequency rate advance the legitimate interests of the Group, in 2016 17.
We have also seen some best in class having regard to the Groups values and RPC Blue Safety Programme performance within some of our acquisitions and standards, as set out in the Code: We have continued to develop this programme and we are implementing these throughout the Group.
our safety seminars, aimed at building networks in comply with all applicable laws, rules and our safety community to further the sharing of best regulations in every country in which the Accident Statistics practices, have been well attended.
The number of Group operates: This year has seen a significant reduction in the trained auditors under our Blue Safety Programme Reportable Accident Frequency Rate of the Group treat customers fairly, openly and honestly: working on our sites continues to increase.
before the acquisitions in 2014 15 are taken into maintain high standards of integrity in business account from 753 to 660 in 2015 16.
The Group as As the Group expands, the Blue Safety Programme relationships with suppliers: and a whole, including acquisitions was higher than last is extended to cover those businesses.
We have an year at 925. intensive auditing programme this year which aims encourage the use of those suppliers who to assess the base-line compliance to the standards operate with values and standards equivalent All sites that have joined the Group in 2015 16 have that we set.
This programme also aims to recognise tothe Groups.
worked hard to adopt the Groups Health and Safety areas where our acquired companies excel in safety standards and to align their safety cultures and The Group does not employ child or forced labour and to adopt improved practices in the rest of the practices, the ultimate aim being to achieve RPCs in any of its operations.
A child is as defined in the Group.
Over 80 Operations and Safety Managers safety aspirations.
Changing culture takes time International Labour Organisation Convention.
from the newly acquired business will be trained and we continue to work hard to do so throughout in RPC systems focussing on risk assessment, our business.
development of safe working practices and training.
In addition a further 25 safety auditors will begin Safety Week their training, focussing initially on specific areas Our slogan for safety week in 2015, chosen from of concern which need to be embedded in our our popular annual competition was Safety Starts sites operations.
It helped to underline our view that every RPC employee makes a valuable contribution to the safety of colleagues, contractors and visitors everyday.
Reportable accident frequency rate RAFR is defined as the number of accidents resulting in more than three days off work, excluding accidents where an employee is travelling to or from work, divided by the average number of employees, multiplied by 100,000.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2 0 0 e 4 l 3 a e m 7 l a e, f 5 m e e f l a m e f 2 1 2 A e l l l a M m e a n m B a o p g RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 Human Rights EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS The Board supports human rights and expects Training and Development our sites to comply with the relevant legislation, The Group seeks to be honest and fair in its The Group continues to support the training and including that relating to the workplace of the relationships with customers and suppliers, to development throughout the group of both existing jurisdiction or country in which they operate.
provide customers with standards of product and employees and apprentices.
Many of our sites have service that have been agreed and to pay suppliers their own apprenticeship schemes, including those We recognise that we have a responsibility to and sub-contractors on agreed terms.
at Bremervrde, Kutenholz and Oakham.
ensure that human rights are upheld in our supply chain.
While our supply chain is generally located It is Group policy to maintain accreditation to Communication in the countries or regions in which we operate, the quality management standard ISO 9001 and The Group established a European Works wewill engage with suppliers who source products encourage operating units to gain accreditation Council in 1998 which meets once a year and a or materials from at risk countries to promote to any specific standards required by the markets steering committee that meets four times a year.
compliance with relevant local legislation.
served or by customers such as the British Retail The European Works Council brings together Consortium and Institute of Packaging BRC IOP employee representatives from across the Groups Food Packaging Standard.
Currently 91 of the operations to discuss business matters with Groups manufacturing operations have ISO 9001 senior managers within the Group including Board accreditation and 59 operating units have BRC P R M Vervaat members.
This involves the provision of information IOP accreditation.
Chief Executive concerning the Group, consultation and discussions.
In addition there are national and site-based works 2 June 2016 COMMUNITY councils and employee forums that discuss more The Board supports initiatives by operating units to local business matters.
engage with their local community.
Operating units An employee newsletter Perspectives is issued and their staff participate in a variety of local regularly in five languages.
Employees are activities including projects with local schools, encouraged to make their views known to the charity events and factory open days.
directors and senior management of the Group.
GENDER DIVERSITY TOTAL MALE 69% TOTAL FEMALE 31% EDUCATION FOR ALL WITH ACE SPONSORSHIP PROGRAMME A community support programme which provides financial sponsorship for high school students in one of the poorest areas of China has been set up by RPC Ace.
The ongoing sponsorship programme helps to provide financial aid and mentoring support to students from the county of Yangshan, one of the poorest and most remote areas of the Guandong province.
