Strategic report Our people Our people have been resilient and focused throughout this period of change.
As a Group, we are greater than the sum In 2016, we were able to put of our parts due to our ability to leverage the turnaround behind us and opportunities and share best practice move to the next phase of across the company.
Our model provides the opportunity Our people have been resilient for the local HR Directors to tailor the Group people strategy to local business and focused throughout this priorities.
With the drive for instilling a period of change and crucial performance culture from the Group, to delivering the successful the regions are focused on building and company we see today.
sustaining a customer-centric culture where colleagues are able to develop.
Our programme to reduce our expense base and the number of permanent Performance culture full-time equivalent FTE employees has the foundations are in place made RSA focused, stronger and better.
Our recent journey has enabled us to Our core regions of UK & International, create an environment where people Canada and Scandinavia now have know how to succeed, are clear on what a more appropriate overall headcount for we expect of them and can bring their the future, with programmes for ongoing best to their role every day.
In turn, we improvement in place.
are laying the foundations for a company where great careers can be made.
1 Total number of employees We are building the right working at the end of 2016 environments, supportive processes, Percentage and people and communications tools of Group Country Employees total for today and tomorrow.
UK & 6,925 52% We have continued to review our cultural International risk and health index on a quarterly basis Canada 3,190 24% across all our businesses with input from Scandinavia 3,043 23% expertise in HR, Risk and Audit, ensuring we are stress testing our organisational Group Corporate 188 1% capacity.
Centre Other 48 Because we value a diversity of perspectives, we continue to offer all Total 13,394 our employees a number of formal and Note: informal platforms where they can give 1.
F ull time equivalent, including non-permanent resource.
These include enterprise social network service, Yammer, Town Hall gatherings and a Group Leaders Forum.
During 2016, we have chosen a new partner to measure our 36 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report employee engagement levels.
people revert to when needing an Our Group Chief Legal Officer, who is This survey ran in January 2017 and immediate answer to a question.
We the Executive Sponsor for diversity and we look forward to using the outputs delivered this content on both Horizon, inclusion, has established a group-wide to build our future people strategy.
our internal Learning and Performance Steering Committee and Working Group platform, and Origin, our bespoke to collaborate on diversity initiatives and Development internal learning video portal.
report on progress to the Board.
In 2016, we maintained our commitment The second is content longer than our In conclusion, we will build the RSA to developing talent across the first category, which provides a of tomorrow, with our people, for organisation.
We have a suite of talent, crossover between formal and informal our customers.
leadership development and learning learning.
This is typically content that our tools, which are designed to provide an employees will need to put aside 30-60 2016 individualistic approach to development.
minutes for, but they can be in control of Female Male For our senior leaders this means having where and when the content is accessed.
Board 3 8 360 feedback and facilitated planning to And finally, we believe instructor-led Group Executive 1 9 focus development with the individual training still has its place in our but also to ensure it is aligned with the Senior management 210 454 proposition.
This is used when the topic priorities of the business.
Weve found 1 All employees 7,391 6,145 is too complex to be covered in the other this to be a successful and effective approaches and where interaction with Note: way to provide tailored and focused 1.
Based on Group permanent headcount.
others enhances the learning experience.
development for our most senior leaders.
When choosing the appropriate vehicle In November we held our annual Group we consider the learner experience, Senior Leaders event.
This brought versus cost effectiveness.
together the community of our most senior leaders, enabling them to create Recognition new connections, learn about the Within all our businesses we understand challenges and trends in the market that our most valuable asset is our whilst determining our future priorities.
people and we believe that it is extremely We also continue to invest in our important to recognise their hard work emerging talent with our Fast Track and contributions.
Our leaders have the programme.
Run regionally, this is opportunity to recognise all our designed to accelerate the careers employees through a number of of the participants by deepening different tools.
self-awareness and exposing them to MBA topics, such as strategy, Diversity and inclusion marketing and business development.
We have reinvigorated our efforts to build greater diversity across all levels of The impact of our talent programmes our organisation and create a more is evident from the results.
Of the inclusive culture which attracts, participants in Fast Track, Senior encourages and capitalises on diverse Talent Acceleration and the Executive perspectives, establishing a stronger Development Programme, 46 percent foundation for RSAs success.
have new roles and 27 percent have expanded roles across the Group.
We are We know that having a diverse proud of growing our talent from within: workforce and a supporting inclusive with 65 percent of our senior-leader culture is vital for our future.
Diversity roles being filled by internal candidates.
in thought, background and experience enables us to innovate and create Digital learning better solutions for our customers.
The opportunities employees have for We kick-started our longer-term learning are now available everywhere.
strategy, by taking some simple steps Unsurprisingly, employees now expect to demonstrate our commitment in an intuitive and engaging experience this area.
Firstly, we are partnering when they interact with technology at with Stonewall to support our ambition work.
We have looked to build our digital to build an inclusive environment.
learning offering based on the learner Secondly, we have begun to take part in being able to access content in three the 30% Club cross-company mentoring different ways, giving them choice programme, which aims to develop our when they want it.
future female talent, giving them access The first of these is content our to senior mentors in other organisations.
employees can find, launch and consume Thirdly, we are active members in the within 15 minutes.
This satisfies the newly created Gender Inclusion Network YouTube Google moment that most for Insurance.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37
