Strategic report Corporate responsibility We are experiencing rapid change politically, socially, economically and environmentally.
Supporting our customers It is important for us as a to live safer, more secure lives business to build trust in the In Sweden, Trygg-Hansa has a long way we operate, tackling tradition of promoting safety in and around water.
In 2016 they teamed up issues with bright ideas for our with the Swedish Life Saving Society, customers, our communities Disney and the Finding Dory movie and our environment.
to promote their summer swim schools.
During the summer months Our approach to corporate responsibility they sponsored 400 swim schools, is determined by our stakeholders view teaching 28,500 children to swim.
on the environmental, social and ethical issues that they see as important for In the UK, as one of the largest motor us as a business to be addressing and insurers, we support young people to influencing.
Our five-year strategy drive safely.
Drivers aged 17-19 only make SM RT WHEELS workshop has four pillars which address these up 1.5 percent of UK licence holders, issues.
Safe, Secure World is how we but are involved in 9 percent of fatal and Trygg-Hansa swim Alberta Fire 1 help customers avoid risks: Thriving serious crashes.
To help young drivers schools support Communities is how we support stay safe, MORE TH Ns SM RT WHEELS, our local communities, increasing an insurance product aimed specifically employability skills in young people: at 17-to-24 year-olds, uses telematics 28,500 C$157k Sustainable Future is how we accelerate to encourage safer driving which can children taught to swim donated to assist disaster relief efforts the transition to a low-carbon economy reduce accidents by 20 percent.
and improve resilience to extreme SM RT WHEELS has now partnered with MORE TH N weather.
Responsible Business is how leading road safety initiativeGood Egg SM RT WHEELS we enhance our business reputation Driversto help improve safety amongst through high-quality governance and young people learning to drive.
30 SM RT WHEELS has sponsored a number We are now halfway through our workshops across of interactive workshops by Good Egg the UK, for 500 corporate responsibility strategy and as Drivers that enable schools across the UK young people such we have reviewed our approach.
to offer free safety guidance to students To do this, we revisited our stakeholder learning to drive.
The first of these took concerns and we looked at the United place in Sunderland in June with the plan Nations Sustainable Development to run 30 workshops across the UK, Goals SDGs.
We wanted to make engaging with over 500 young people.
sure we were still addressing issues of importance and we wanted to understand how we could influence and support the delivery of the SDGs.
uk events 15-facts-a-resources facts  34 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Securing a sustainable future Our approach to climate change is three-fold.
We support our customers RSA are committed to delivering the United to adapt to changing environmental risks and opportunities through our products Nations Sustainable Development Goals through and services.
We measure, monitor and our corporate responsibility strategy, putting manage our impact on the environment, our customers first whilst delivering long-term identifying ways to reduce our negative impact, Finally, we continue to be a value to our environment and society.
leading provider of insurance to the renewable energy sector.
Charlotte Heiss Group Chief Legal Officer & Company Secretary and This year we reduced the emissions Group Executive Committee Corporate Responsibility Sponsor from our operations by 15 percent per person from a 2015 baseline, meeting our Group-wide carbon reduction target two years ahead of time.
This was achieved through property rationalisation across our regions and encouraging sustainable working practices like recycling: and opting for environmentally sustainable RSA donated C$100,000 to the Red Cross Being a responsible business alternatives where possible.
to help the victims of the wildfires and Public trust in business has declined in more than C$57,000 was raised by RSA the last year with 75 percent of people In Canada and the UK, we celebrated employees through the companys agreeing that a company can take World Environment Day on 5 June.
specific actions that both increase profits In the UK, we ran a switch-off campaign and improve the economic and social where we rewarded employees who In the UK, our people have been sharing conditions in the community where it had turned off their IT equipment and their skills and experience to support our operates.
We engage with customers, reminded everyone of the simple things local schools and colleges.
Volunteers employees and suppliers, being open we could all do to work more sustainably.
from across the country have been and transparent in how we manage our In Canada, we announced the regional designing and delivering workshops operations and deliver our products and green teams which are being supported to help young people to develop the services, helping us build trust.
This year, through our new five year partnership skills they need for the workplace.
in response to the UKs Modern Slavery with WWF Canada.
This partnership Act, we have reviewed the way in which Our Ready Set Achieve programme sees RSA become the new sponsor of delivers benefits to the community we recruit our employees and engage Living Planet @ Work, WWF-Canadas with third parties.
We have strengthened and to our business.
It addresses a key environmental employee engagement social issue as we aim to help young our policies and procedures to make sure programme.
that modern slavery has no place within people to develop the skills, knowledge In the UK, following another significant and confidence they need to secure our business.
Our Slavery and Human flood event in December, we were kept Trafficking statement will be published employment, and it also develops busy supporting customers to get them the talent of our people and supports online by April 2017. back to normal as quickly as possible.
For more information visit our During the claim settlement process, corporate responsibility webpage at: Although not an initial objective of we encouraged flood resilient measures this community programme, we have rsagroup.
com responsibility where appropriate, mitigating the been delighted to recruit four talented potential damage of future events.
young people having met them at With the largest number of renewable an employability workshop.
energy insurance experts in the world, we have a Centre of Excellence for Wind in Denmark.
We use our knowledge and expertise to support the development of new innovative renewable energy projects like floating wind turbines.
We build trust in our company by having robust controls in place to run our business responsibly, minimising Helping our communities thrive During the devastating wildfires in Fort negative risks and taking advantage of any opportunities McMurray, RSA Canada employees were presented.
Our corporate responsibility strategy ensures on the ground with a mobile response that we identify, prioritise and manage our social, ethical unit, providing support at the evacuation centre in Edmonton.
With customers, and environmental risks and opportunities.
brokers and friends impacted, RSA was keen to provide as much support as William McDonnell possible to the Alberta community.
Group Chief Risk Officer and Group Executive Committee Corporate Responsibility Sponsor RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35
