STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainable development Our sustainable development strategy, Prosper, is embedded in our business strategy and will enable us to secure growth that benefits us and local communities.
Long-term commercial success demands The year saw two ground-breaking global economic value through our business that we play a positive role in the communities agreements that will shape the development activities, most of which was distributed where we operate.
This means supporting agenda for years to come: the United Nations to employees, shareholders, governments, jobs and stimulating growth, promoting launched 17 Sustainable Development and local communities.
responsible alcohol consumption, and Goals SDGs, and world leaders committed stewarding water and other natural resources.
to tackle climate change at COP21 in Paris.
Smalland medium-sized enterprises SMEs 1 When our business prospers, communities Through Prosper, we can make a meaningful account for nearly 70% of global employment.
When communities prosper, so does contribution to these goals.
The SDGs also emphasise the critical role that our business.
these small businesses play in creating jobs A thriving world and economic growth, especially in areas Through our five shared imperatives outlined Businesses create jobs, develop markets, of high unemployment, poverty, and poor below, we aim to tackle the issues that are and stimulate economic growth.
Yet too many social mobility.
most material for our business at a local and people especially women are excluded global level.
The imperatives give us global from the positive impact of economic growth.
SABMiller buys from or sells directly to focus and alignment, while allowing local The SDGs seek to tackle poverty, but also approximately 1.5 million small businesses markets to respond to local needs.
They are broaden the concept of development to worldwide.
Our business relies on the ability shared because we can only tackle joint encompass the provision of decent work, of suppliers, farmers, distributors, and risks in partnership with those who also face enterprise development, womens retailers to survive, grow, and prosper with us.
By working together with local empowerment, and reduced inequality.
That is why we have committed to support communities, suppliers, governments, over 500,000 of these small businesses to consumers and beyond, we can create One of the most powerful contributions enhance their growth and livelihoods.
we make to these goals is through direct we have reached over 175,000. and indirect employment, and through the 1 International Trade Centre 2015. value we generate in our operations, our value chain, and local economies.
In the year we generated US$21,640 million of Our shared imperatives A thriving world A sociable world Through Prosper and its five shared imperatives we aim to tackle the issues that are most material for our business at a local and international level.
Shared opportunity We want a thriving world where incomes We want a sociable world where our beers and quality of life are growing are developed, marketed, sold and consumed responsibly Shared imperative We will accelerate growth and social We will endeavour to make beer the development through our value chains natural choice for the moderate and responsible drinker Our headline 2020 target is to Directly support more than half Aim to reach all of our beer consumers a million small enterprises to with effective communication campaigns, enhance their business growth and partnerships to encourage moderate and family livelihoods and responsible beer consumption 48 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT harmful alcohol consumption by 10% by 25 in any commercial communication.
This is also an area of focus for the policy also incorporates the Beer, Wine and 175,000 Sustainable Development Goals SDGs.
Spirits Producers Commitments a set of 10 small businesses supported to We recognise too that consumer preferences commitments adopted by 12 global alcohol date across our value chain.
and values have been shifting to a greater companies to promote responsible practices.
Beer brings people together, adding to the enjoyment of life, but we All our operating companies, with very limited must work proactively to meet all of exceptions in our smallest businesses, have a these expectations.
sales and marketing compliance committee A fair approach to taxation SMCC, which is mandated to ensure that any Our fourth Our Approach to Tax report is We are committed to addressing harmful proposed marketing materials comply with published alongside this Annual Report, drinking through a mix of commercial and the POCC, and with local laws and national and shares information on our tax payments programmatic interventions, coupled with self-regulatory requirements.
The SMCC has and principles.
The total taxes borne and targeted regulatory interventions that we the power to reject, or demand changes to, collected this year by the SABMiller group, will support or seek out as effective ways any material that fails to comply.
As at 31 including our share of taxes paid by our US to address particular types of irresponsible March 2016, the SMCCs of almost three joint venture amounted to US$9,507 million and harmful drinking.
quarters of our businesses involved non- 2015: US$10,639 million.
These include industry participation, including independent excise, corporate, and transactional taxes, Our publicly available, comprehensive policies chairs or independent audits of their work.
and taxes borne by employees.
Of this total, help our employees and partners to meet our As at 31 March 2016, 70% of employees 68% was paid in developing countries.
demanding standards for producing and worldwide had received alcohol responsibility The corporate tax charge for the year was marketing our products to encourage training within the past three years.
US$1,152 million 2015: US$1,273 million, responsible consumption.
and our effective tax rate was 26.3% 2015: The root causes of harmful drinking are 26.0%.
We support moves towards greater Read more about our alcohol responsibility complex and vary widely between countries tax transparency and are actively working to policies at www.
More than 160 tailored local share more information with key stakeholders.
policy programmes for reducing harmful alcohol use bring to life our principles and comprehensive Read more on page 42 Our Policy on Commercial Communication policies.
We believe in a multi-stakeholder POCC governs how and where we market approach, and in almost every case we A sociable world our brands.
The POCC states that we will not collaborate with local partners, including Harmful drinking is an issue of significant direct our marketing including on social governments, non-governmental organisations, concern to governments, society, and civil society groups and public bodies such media to people under the legal drinking SABMiller.
It is an issue that we are committed as the police.
We believe that by working age, or feature paid models below the age of to helping tackle.
We support the aim of the in partnership with other organisations World Health Organization WHO to reduce A resilient world A clean world A productive world We want a resilient world where our We want a clean world where nothing We want a productive world where land is business, local communities and goes to waste and emissions are used responsibly, food supply is secure, ecosystems share uninterrupted access dramatically lower biodiversity is protected and brewing crops to safe, clean water can be accessed at reasonable prices We will secure shared water We will create value through reducing We will support responsible, resources for our business and waste and carbon emissions sustainable use of land for local communities brewing crops Secure the water supplies we share with Reduce the carbon footprint per hectolitre Ensure the sourcing of our crops 1 local communities through partnerships across our value chain by 25%, including measurably improves both food to tackle shared water risks by 50% within our breweries, by 25% security and resource productivity across our packaging and by 25% across our refrigeration carbon footprint 1 Against a 2010 base.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 49 STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainable development continued | our approach and programmes are more action plans with the aim of effectively robust and credible, and more likely to mitigating the risks water scarcity poses achieve change.
both to our sites and to local communities.
To nd out more about SABMillers Tackling water scarcity and quality issues alcohol responsibility programmes around requires collaboration between governments, the world visit www.
com affected communities, businesses, and other  stakeholders.
This year we formalised a new Prosper and the UN Sustainable global alliance with our longstanding partner, Development Goals SDGs A resilient world World Wide Fund for Nature WWF to SABMiller is committed to rising to the Water scarcity already affects more than support key priorities.
challenge of the SDGs, and helping to make 1 40% of the global population.
Each of our shared imperatives serious issue that has major implications for A clean world are already aligned to a number of SDGs.
a global brewer: put simply, no water, no beer.
Climate change has far-reaching Visit our website for more detailed information At the same time, water scarcity is holding consequences for our business and the on how we will play our part at www.
back economic and social development for communities where we operate, from water sabmiller.
com prosper-and-the-sdgs hundreds of millions of people around the scarcity and energy constraints, to reduced world.
Tackling this successfully will release food security and health risks.
The Paris untapped prosperity for everyone from the climate talks in December 2015 marked smallest farmers to global manufacturing a turning point, as world leaders agreed businesses and entire national economies.
the first truly global commitment to act on climate change.
Water to lager ratio hl water hl lager We are on track to halve our on-site 4.0 greenhouse gas emissions per hectolitre of 3.7 3.5 lager between 2008 and 2020.
In the year 3.3 2 3.2 ended 31 March 2016 fossil fuel emissions per hl of lager produced fell by 5.4%, with total CO2e emissions of 1.7 million tonnes 2015: 1.7 million tonnes, of which 0.8 million tonnes were generated from our direct use of fuels such as natural gas, coal and oil scope one and 0.9 million tonnes were generated indirectly from the production of electricity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and steam we purchase scope two.
Energy Prosper through our brands savings have contributed the vast majority of on-site emissions reductions.
We believe that by engaging with This year, we achieved a water efficiency consumers on shared concerns, our 2 CO2e emissions from fossil fuel energy ratio of 3.2 hl hl 2015: 3.3 hl hl and we are brands can help to deliver societal benets used on site kgCO2e hl lager on track to meet our target of 3.0 hl hl by while driving topline growth.
At 25 of our breweries, average 12.4 includes a target to build sustainable 11.1 water efficiency is already below 3.0 hl hl.
10.3 development messages into the activations 2 In absolute terms, we used 597 million hl 9.4 2 8.9 of three brands in each market by 2020. of water to produce our lager 2015: 592 million hl.
Across SABMiller, 44 brands have now adopted sustainable development activities.
This includes Cusquea in 2 Peru, which is supporting the livelihoods 3.2hl of local weavers.
As part of the support water to produce 1 hl lager, on programme, 50 Cusquean weavers 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 track to meet our target of 3.0 hl crafted a world first a giant hand-woven hl by 2020. woollen billboard using more than one million individual threads.
However, reducing emissions from our operations is just the first step.
We have a While water scarcity is a risk to our business In Europe, where unemployment among target to reduce our total carbon footprint per operations, it can also have severe human target consumers is a growing problem, hectolitre by 25% by 2020, from 2010 levels, and economic consequences for local Excelent Czech Republic and Slovakia, including a 25% reduction in both packaging communities.
Nearly all of our breweries have Kornuit Netherlands and Nastro Azzurro and refrigeration.
now evaluated their exposure to water risk Italy are each supporting young using our bespoke water risk assessment entrepreneurs to achieve their dreams.
Each brewery has identied and prioritised risks and developed action plans Read more at www.
com in consultation with local stakeholders.
prosperandbrands Our focus is now on implementing these 50 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Returnable bottles and kegs are much affordable beer.
Our Africa Go Farming more carbonand resource-efficient strategy is doing just that.
In multiple markets The Mackay Awards throughout their lifecycle than cans, PET we are working to source the most bottles or non-returnable glass bottles.
51% appropriate crop in the local context to be Last year we launched The Mackay Awards of our beer was sold in returnable bottles and used for brewing read more on page 7. to recognise and reward the initiatives by kegs 2015: 53%.
We also work with suppliers SABMiller teams around the world that to reduce the weight and environmental We have a target to source 100% of our best contribute to delivering our shared impact of all packaging in the relevant market.
sugarcane from sustainable sources by 2020.
This year a During the year, 15.3% of our global sugar Prosper Pitch category was introduced for SABMiller has a target to purchase 100% supply from sugarcane came from employees to submit new ideas that would HFC-free fridges by 2020, and we are sustainable sources 2015: 5.1%.
This help deliver the ambitions behind Prosper.
working hard to make this economically and represents all sugar sourced from our The winning entry will receive seed funding practically feasible for retailers.
This year, 20% Azunosa sugar mill in Honduras, which and senior management support to put the of the fridges we purchased were HFC-free.
Through introducing more energy-efficient on significant progress made towards fridges, we estimate an average annual saving sustainable sugarcane with suppliers in of US$106 per trade fridge for the retailer.
Latin America, South Africa and Australia representing an additional 59% of our Around 97% of spent grain from our supply, we are confident that we are on Transparency and ethics breweries is reused typically by farmers for track to meet our 2020 target.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics animal feed or for renewable energy, creating provides the overarching basis under which value as well as preventing waste from our employees and ofcers are required to 2 being diverted to landll.
During the year our uphold high standards of ethical conduct.
breweries reused or recycled 89% of brewery We have a long-standing commitment to 15.3% waste 2015: 90%.
transparency, honesty, integrity and fairness, of sugar sourced from sugarcane and to a zero tolerance approach to bribery, meeting sustainable standards.
SABMiller is an A list performer in the CDPs as we strongly believe this is a fundamentally Carbon Performance Leaders Index.
Read our important tenet of doing business.
net Embedding Prosper across our business Our projects during this year have included a A productive world To ensure that Prosper delivers its full review of our global procurement procedures Around 1.3 billion people work in agriculture, potential as a route to unlocking value for the to enhance, clarify and streamline our producing most of the worlds food but just business and benets for society, we have expectations of suppliers, including a review 3 3% of global GDP.
Agriculture also uses focused during the year on further integrating of our due diligence approach and Code one-third of the worlds land and accounts Prosper into the way we drive business of Conduct for Suppliers.
We believe we 1 for 70% of all fresh water withdrawals.
All parts of our business, from should actively drive social, economic and As demand for food grows, there is a Australia to Zambia, and from procurement to environmental improvements in our supply pressing need to produce more with less, sales, have a role to play in delivering Prosper chain, ultimately helping to improve livelihoods to reduce crop losses, and to improve as an integrated part of their strategy and dayand build communities, and our Supplier agricultural livelihoods.
Code of Conduct details how we expect SABMiller Procurement suppliers to act to Quality malting barley is a key ingredient As part of our business planning process, ensure that our high anti-corruption standards of beer.
SABMiller has identied priorities in the year, each region and global function are continually achieved.
in each of our barley sourcing regions, and completed a Prosper progress review, to is working with farmers and, where relevant, assess the t of Prosper with core elements Read more at malt suppliers to ensure malting barley is of strategy, and to identify key challenges in www.
com anti-corruption economically attractive to farmers, climate delivering our Prosper targets.
Insights from resilient and resource efficient.
Buying this process have been used to identify areas SABMiller plc SABMiller plc Our Approach to Tax Sustainable locally-grown barley can reduce costs, create requiring additional focus and resource.
2016 Development Report 2016 jobs and increase incomes.
However, it is not suitable for all climates, making imports Our Prosper performance is measured necessary in some markets.
through our bespoke management system, the Sustainability Assessment Matrix SAM Incorporating local crops like cassava, maize, and is overseen by the group corporate rice, and sorghum into our beers supports accountability and risk assurance committee 1 local farmers and helps us produce more CARAC, a committee of the SABMiller plc board.
The CARAC is chaired by Dambisa Moyo, a non-executive director of SABMiller Further reports 1 United Nations, 2016. plc see pages 54 and 55 for a full list of Find out more about our sustainable 2 Information for the year ended 31 March 2016 has been members.
Each region also has its own development performance in our Sustainable subject to limited assurance by  CARAC, chaired by the regional managing Development Report 2016 and our tax LLP.
For further details of the assurance provided see director, which meets twice a year to review payments and principles in Our Approach the independent assurance report on pages 36 and 37 of the Sustainable Development Report 2016. local Prosper performance and discuss to Tax report.
3 International Labor Organization, 2016 and emerging issues.
