STRATEGIC REPORT People | Valuing and supporting our people Our success is driven by the thousands of people that we employ, and the millions in our value chains.
Supporting people is at the heart of our business, of Prosper and of all five shared imperatives.
During the year we recorded 8,357 days lost through injury 2015: 13,028 and 142 major injuries 2015: 490.
Road trafc accidents accounted for a significant proportion of fatalities, and road safety remains a top priority worldwide.
Our South African business has launched a new campaign, called ACT10N, to reinforce the 10 global safety standards in the Safety Around Beverages programme in simple and engaging ways.
The campaign emphasises personal responsibility, while making line managers accountable for giving their teams the knowledge and skills needed to behave safely.
Powerful docu-drama lms and other communications are capturing employees attention and making sure that the safety message resonates.
Promoting wellbeing We aim to create a healthy and positive Improving health and safety It is therefore with the deepest regret that we work environment for all our employees, We strive to reduce or eliminate risks of harm report that 27 employees and contractors lost acknowledging the benets this provides in to our employees, contractors, and all others their lives at work this year 2015: 29.
Eight of terms of productivity.
In Africa, our Wellness affected by our business.
Our global health these fatalities resulted from accidents during Development Programme focuses on HIV and safety programme, Safety Around on-site maintenance or repairs, 10 from road Aids, malaria, sexually transmitted infections, Beverages, sets minimum standards for trafc accidents, and nine were the result of hepatitis B and C, and tuberculosis.
Our group-wide health and robberies or assaults on employees during is to train employees to educate their peers at safety governance system has standardised sales or trade visits.
Our businesses work, at home and in their wider communities, reporting across the group, and enables us to investigated each case and, where applicable, by promoting prevention, testing and target improvements and share best practice.
put in place measures to reduce the likelihood treatment of these diseases.
In countries of these incidents recurring.
Supporting employees through change Since the boards of SABMiller and AB InBev reached agreement in principle on the key terms of a recommended offer, looking after our people has been a priority.
We have created a People Plan to keep all employees informed about the proposed transaction, and how they might be affected.
The plan is designed to treat and remunerate our people fairly, keep hold of our best talent, and support our teams through the potential changes.
It also aims to ensure that our business keeps delivering results while making a smooth transition to a new company where our people can continue to develop their careers.
We have kept our people informed through town-hall meetings, functional meetings, individual meetings with managers, and regular communications.
Employees have had their say through focus groups and surveys conducted worldwide.
Most of those participating have said that, despite the potential changes, they feel empowered to make decisions, understand their goals, feel positive about their line managers, and are learning useful skills for their careers.
Leadership skills become more critical than ever during periods of change.
To support leaders during the period, we developed a toolkit to provide further support and resources that address some of the most common leadership challenges during transition.
This includes a combination of quick, easy to access resources such as top tips, along with short articles and videos to help leaders with leading their teams in a period of uncertainty.
52 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 where HIV Aids has a high prevalence, we Recognising performance provided free voluntary counselling and Our performance management system testing for 56% of employees in the last year.
provides a framework for employees to set themselves stretching individual goals and Valuing diversity and equality ensures that we recognise and reward strong Womens empowerment and gender diversity performance.
These goals are linked to are central themes of the UN Sustainable business objectives.
Bonus payments and Development Goals SDGs and a business salary increases are linked to performance imperative.
Women are a vital source of talent against these goals, and calculated against in an increasingly competitive employment a combination of individual achievement and market, play a central role in our value chain, overall company performance.
and represent a huge potential market.
Respecting human rights SABMiller is committed to respecting In an industry still seen as male dominated, Promoting human rights internationally recognised human rights as we are determined to improve gender in our supply chain set out in the International Bill of Human diversity, particularly among our leadership.
We are a signatory of the UN Global Women represent 20.4% of our global Tackling human rights risks in our supply 2 3 Compact.
We have developed an approach workforce 2015: 20.6% and 29.8% of chain requires transparency about the 4 5 which helps our local businesses to identify executives and managers 2015: 29.6%.
situation and collaboration to address any and mitigate human rights risks within their Our ten-strong executive committee includes issues.
This has been a focus for SABMiller operations and value chains, in line with the one woman.
20% of SABMillers plc board is Procurement since it was established in UN Guiding Principles on Business and female below the FTSE 100 average of 2010.
We welcome the focus the UKs 6 Human Rights.
During the year, we updated 25.9%, although women hold three of our Modern Slavery Act puts on this area of our human rights policy to clarify our position seven independent non-executive director human rights.
on areas such as land rights and grievance posts 43%.
We held workshops in London, To understand the risks in our supply Bangalore, Johannesburg, and Miami to chain we have implemented a supplier review this and work out how best to address accreditation programme including on-site 3 human rights risks in different local contexts.
We understand 29.8% that audits have their limitations, but believe Female managers and executives We respect the right to union representation that by helping suppliers to address gaps and 44.1% of employees are union members in their risk management processes, and or covered by collective bargaining by accelerating our support for Prosper, agreements 2015: 42.8%.
We have clear policies and processes for we can reduce the risk of human rights recruiting and treating people fairly and on violations, including modern slavery, in our Modern slavery merit, regardless of age, gender, sexual supply chains.
Our ambition is for 80% of Modern slavery includes slavery, servitude, orientation, religion, disability, or ethnic origin.
our spend to be with accredited suppliers forced labour, and human trafcking.
Modern However, we know we can do more to attract by 2020. slavery can be difficult to identify in supply female employees.
In Africa, we launched chains due to a shared interest in hiding it Plus One an initiative that aims to increase In Africa, we are working closely among organisations exploiting workers, and the percentage of females across our African with Partner Africa, a leading social also among workers who fear losing their jobs businesses at the management and executive enterprise and pioneer in ethical and or even deportation.
While modern slavery is level.
In Australia, we established a local socially responsible business practices, a global problem, there is a greater risk that Diversity Forum in the year, which is chaired to help suppliers in the region to meet it may be present in the agriculture and by the regional managing director.
The forum our global standards.
Our Human Rights is examining ways to ensure the business Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct prohibit attracts, retains, and develops highall forms of modern slavery.
risk-based approach to seek to understand and address the risk of modern slavery, We continue to support South Africas through robust due diligence and Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment engagement with suppliers and other key BBBEE initiatives for growing the economy local stakeholders.
by including and empowering previously disadvantaged citizens.
81% of The South Read SABMillers UK Modern Slavery Act 1 African Breweries Pty Ltd SAB workforce Dened as greater than 5% of the population.
com 2 is from previously disadvantaged groups 13,896 women and 54,321 men as at 31 March 2016. modernslaveryact 3 and 63% of its employees are black.
SAB Information for the year ended 31 March 2016 has been subject to limited assurance by  achieved 78.54 2015: 79.24 in the last annual LLP.
For further details of the assurance provided see the BBBEE verication, making it a level 5 independent assurance report on pages 36 and 37 of the Sustainable Development Report 2016. contributor under the new BBBEE code 4 2,855 women and 6,715 men as at 31 March 2016. of good practice.
5 As at 31 March 2016, 64 women and 360 men were directors of subsidiary companies included within the consolidated financial statements.
