Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risk Risk background Management and mitigation Regulatory and legal framework Sage does not understand and Sages services operate within a complex All legal resources across Sage report directly to the General Counsel operate within the applicable regulatory and legal environment.
Monitoring and Company Secretary regulatory and legal framework.
this evolving regulatory and legal environment Legal services use internal and external resources to monitor planned enables timely and appropriate steps to ensure and realised changes in legislation Strategic alignment: ongoing compliance.
All product contracts are reviewed and approved through One Sage Legalservices An agreed suite of policies is in place as fide ned through the Excellence in Governance initiative, and has been revised, to supportkey legislation, including data protection and anti-bribery A Code of Conduct is in place across the business which provides clarity over how colleagues are expected to behave.
Completion ofCode of Conduct training is mandatory for colleagues, andcon rmation ofunderstanding is recorded and monitored Whistleblowing and Incident Management Policies and procedures are in place.
These have beenupdated and processesenhanced in 2016, to ensure appropriate treatment of identi ed events and management visibility In progress: The appointment of a Sage Head of Compliance and creation of a Sage Compliance function to reinforce the drive towards a 100% compliance culture Sage brand Sage does not deliver clear Following several years of acquisition, work A Brand team is in place which has overall responsibility for developing andconsistent branding to continues to develop and harmonise the Sage the Sage Brand themarket.
Whilst it is well recognised and trusted by All countries must comply with Sages Brand Governance and Brand customers in many core markets, brand Guidelines, whichare designed to execute the Sage Masterbrand Strategic alignment: awareness remains inconsistent.
The timeframes for compliance of all products are fide ned, One Sage and any exceptions must be approved through the Brand team A clear and consistent brand enables customers to understand Sage values.
ADigital Asset Management DAM tool is in placewhich work ows requests and approvals, and acts as a single information repository Ongoing reviews of customer experienceare performed Net Promoter Scores, and output is reviewed across both countries and products to identify variance, and develop improvement plans Sage Summit 2016 took place in Chicago The Sage Foundation was expanded across Sage during FY16, alignedwithour values and behaviours In progress: All branded assets must be uploaded to the Brand Library, and any exceptions from brand guidelines reported to the Chief MarketingO cer Compliance Programme to be rolled out, to assess and educate oncompliance with Brand Governance and Brand Guidelines Brand awareness campaign to be launched to improve Brandrecognition Sage Summit will take place acrosseight cities in 2017 Key Improving risk environment Static risk environment 40 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Principal risk Risk background Management and mitigation Strategic partnerships Sage fails to identify, build There are increasing instances where A Partner and Alliances team isestablished to oversee the selection andmaintain strategic developing strategic partnerships will andmanagement ofSages strategic alliances and partners, including partnerships.
accountability for active management of relationships fide nitionsare in placeto ensure clarity and consistency over strategic Strategic alignment: The governance and control around alliances and partners, to enableappropriateand consistentmanagement engagement and use must be fide ned, Revolutionise business of these arrangements aswell as management of the ecosystem.
All contracts for strategic alliancesrequire approval through legalservices During 2016, we have broadened the risk to fide ned legal provisions are required for inclusion in contracts.
Any include our extended distribution network variancein provisions must be recorded as part of the formal contract Sage Partner Programme.
approval process In progress: Ongoing review and development of the Sage Partner Programme A financial model for the Sage Partner Programme is being developed Third party reliance Sage does not understand and Several Sage customer service o erings A Procurement function ensures key controls are applied in the selection manage itsthird party are delivered or supported usingthird and on-boarding of third parties ecosystem.
parties, whilst Sage remains accountable The Procurement function supports the business with the selection for quality of performance.
ofthirdparties and negotiation of contracts Strategic alignment: Thethird party ecosystem must be Legal resources are used in contract negotiation Revolutionise business understood and e ectively managed, A Procurement Lifecycle Policy and proceduresare fide ned, agreed and inorder to limit Sages exposure.
These contain clear roles and responsibilities for colleagues and align with existing processes, including investment approval In progress: Implementation of the Procurement Lifecycle Procedures is underway, including classifying third parties for business criticality, andassociated actions Rationalisation of the thirdparty ecosystem is continuing The principal risks are those which, it is assessed, most threaten Having identi ed the severe but plausible risk combinations, a successful delivery of Sages strategy.
They aretherefore used as crossfunctional group of senior leaders, including representatives thebasis forchallenging, and establishing, our financial viability.
from Finance, Risk, IT, Product Marketing and Legal, estimated the monetary impact of each scenario.
These impacts were based on Developing the financial viability statement similar events in the public domain and internal estimates of In developing the viability statement, it was determined that a remediation costs.
three-year period should be used.
This period was selected as it aligns our viability statement with our planning time horizon for The impacts were modelled for both year one and year three of ourthree-year strategic plan and is appropriate given the nature theforecast period to ensure that expected changes in the Groups andinvestment cycle of a technology business.
This represents product mix, through migration towards a greater proportion of cloud achange from the prior year when the viability statement was based products, did not adversely impact on the Groups viability.
prepared using a five-year period, which aligned with the Business As set out in the Audit and Risk Committ ees report on page 77, Transformation plan that covered the period through to 2020.
Now theDirectors reviewed and discussed the process undertaken by that the Business Transformation is in its implementation phase, management, and also reviewed the results of reverse stress testing athree-year strategic planning period is considered appropriate.
performed to provide an illustration of the reduction in revenue that Management reviewed the principal risks and considered which would be required to break the Groups covenants or exhaust all might threaten the Groups viability.
It was determined that none available cash.
ofthe individual risks would in isolation compromise the Groups The Directors viability statement is contained in the Directors Report viability, and so a number of di erent severe but plausible scenarios on page 101. were considered where principal risks arose in combination.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 41 s M s i t e i s g s a t A e Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk management The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing thee ectiveness of our risk management activities from a financial, operational and compliance perspective.
These activities are designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives orto successfully deliver the business strategy.
Our risk management strategy supports the successful running ofthebusiness by identifying and managing risks to an acceptable level and delivering assurance on these.
How we identify risk Risk management process Our risk identi cation process follows a dual approach, seeking: to identify risks using a top down approach.
These principal risks are those which threaten delivery of our strategy to identify risks using a bott om up approach at the country and regional level.
Such risks are those which threaten local business activity To provide visibility, the highest rated local risks are escalated in line with the Risk Management Policy to the Regional and Global Risk Committ ees.
How we manage risk Our risk appetite Our risk management framework continually identi es, Our risk appetite re ects our preparedness to accept risk, evaluates, analyses, manages and mitigates those risks aspart of our business activities.
which threaten the successful achievement of our business All identi ed risks are measured on a gross and net risk basis strategy and objectives, within tolerable appetites.
Risks are using a pre-determined scoring matrix as set out in our Risk owned and managed within the business, and formally Management Policy.
Sage Risk continues to review and develop its approach to guide, support and challenge Our principal risks are then monitored against fide ned thebusiness in managing risk, transforming the business appetite statements and supporting metrics, with these anddelivery of the strategy.
statements and metrics evaluated across the year to ensure they remain aligned to our strategic objectives and within To supplement business as usual risk management acceptable tolerance for the Group.
activities, Sage Risk undertakes a number of targeted in-depth reviews against identi ed risks each year.
In 2016 these were conducted against four of the principal risks, namely Business Model Transition, Market Intelligence, Supporting Control Environment and Third Party Reliance.
Ineach case Sage Risk has worked to critically review activities and collaboratively improve practices and processes, for which ownership remains within the business.
Followingeach review, Sage Risk has remained engaged withthe business to provide guidance, support and challenge.
The results of these reviews feed into the quarterly risk reportingcycle to the Global Risk Committ ee.
42 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 E v a l e u r a u t s e a e M Risks continue to be owned and managed within the Values and behaviours business, and are overseen and supervised through the The Board is aware that the e ectiveness of risk Global and Regional Risk Committ ees, which are described management and fide nition and operation of an e ective on pages 44 and 45.
During 2016, Sage Risk has reviewed and control environment is dependent on values and behaviours.
The responsibilities of The Sage Values and Behaviours set out how Sages strategy each risk colleague now include speci c geographic scope, should beexecuted.
Our Code of Conduct supports and together with alignment to bothprincipal risks and Sage reinforces the required values and behaviours expected business functions.
These changes ensure thatSage Riskcan across Sage, including compliance with ethical standards.
continueto e ectively support colleagues and functions within the business during the business transformation, and In addition, as previously stated, our three lines of support in-country risk management.
To assist colleagues in defencemodel determines clear roles and responsibilities understanding how to identify and report risks, compulsory forcolleagues, and establishes accountability and how risk management training for all colleagues has been appropriate challenge, assurance and oversight is provided developed for launch in January 2017. over business activities.
Underpinning this, Sage hascontinued to develop its During 2016 we have revised, consolidated and published threelines of defence model to ensure accountability and aSage-wide policy framework on the Sage Academy.
To transparency and set out the roles and responsibilities of facilitate colleague understanding and requirements of each Sage colleague.
The model and its e ective operation thepolicy framework, a number of training courses have isintended to support a strong control environment with been created and rolled-out to all colleagues, with tests appropriate governance, risk and control procedures ofcompetency and understanding.
Behaviour forms a embedded across Sage.
In support of this model a Sage signi cant part of our colleague performance management Compliance function has been created.
The compliance process, and reinforces Sages values and behaviours.
team will support the business in continuing to develop theinternal control framework, nurture our aim of a 100% compliance culture and ensure that we continue to embraceour values and behaviours in the Sage Way.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 43
