Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility CR is our commitment to the positive impact that our business can make, through our people, to our stakeholders and the communities in which we live and work.
Our business philosophy Key highlights in 2016 People Pride in We Everything Take great pride in delivering the highest quality service.
We expanded our leadership Seek to employ only the best people.
programme to our European and Enjoy what we do.
We launched the Savills Studley Academy, a multi-year business Take an We mentorship programme aimed at Entrepreneurial Seek out new markets and opportunities for clients.
harnessing the talent of the rising Approach to Take a creative and entrepreneurial approach to stars in the US business.
Are forward-thinking, and always aim to build long-term Clients client relationships.
Aim to be a leader in every market we enter.
Maintained our long-term partnerships with our clients though delivering high quality service.
Help our People We Fulfil Their True Encourage an open and supportive culture in which every individual is respected.
Potential Help our people to excel through appropriate training and development.
Environment Share success and reward achievement.
Recognise that our peoples diverse strengths combined with good teamwork produce the best results.
We continued to expand the Believe that a rewarding workplace inspires and motivates.
scope of our data collection for Strive to provide an environment in which our people can our global greenhouse gas flourish and succeed this allows us to recruit, motivate emissions.
We now report from and retain talented people and build on our status as an our UK, Europe, US, Australia, employer of choice.
New Zealand, Hong Kong, Japan, Engage with our people to communicate our vision and Singapore and key Chinese strategy through well-established internal channels.
Community Retained our membership of Always Act We FTSE4Good, evidencing our Behave responsibly.
With Integrity commitment to meeting globally Act with honesty and respect for other people.
recognised corporate Adhere to the highest standards of professional ethics.
The FTSE Group confirms that Savills plc has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to remain a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent environmental, social and governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practice.
BREEAM is a registered trademark of BRE the Building Research Establishment Ltd. Community Trade Mark E5778551.
The BREEAM marks, logos and symbols are the Copyright of BRE and are reproduced by permission.
Savills plc 32 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements whose behaviours reflect in our business Corporate responsibility at Savills philosophy deliver the excellent client Overall responsibility for our CR programme People service that we strive to provide.
Our sits with the Group Chief Executive and the business philosophy also captures our Board.
CR strategy is co-ordinated by our commitment to ethical, professional CR Steering Group, comprising senior Throughout this Report we and responsible conduct and our representatives from a range of businesses refer to the importance of our entrepreneurial value-enhancing approach.
They are key to our implemented and delivered at country level continued success.
across the four areas of CR which we The following section highlights our believe are key to the success of our progress in the key areas behind our business and where we believe we can It is our vision to be the real estate advisor people strategy.
make the most difference: People, Clients, of choice in our selected markets and Environment and Community.
Through a deliver superior financial performance and Increasing employee engagement localised approach and by focusing on this can only be achieved through the In 2015 we asked our employees in the UK to these key areas we give our businesses the dedication, commitment and excellence of participate in the Best Companies to Work freedom to adapt quickly and to respond at our people.
for Employee Engagement survey, a people local level to new opportunities in the survey which allows us to measure and markets in which they operate.
The Board Savills is committed to providing compare ourselves against other large receives annual and ad hoc updates on CR employment on an equal basis irrespective organisations and helps to identify ways to activities and progress.
To ensure that we of gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil improve how we do things.
Over 400 can readily identify emerging issues and partner status, gender reassignment, race, companies and 540,000 employees respond to them on a timely basis, we nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion participated.
We have been recognised as continue to include the consideration of or belief, disability or age.
reaching One Star Status, demonstrating CR-related issues in our Key Risk Registers.
our commitment to progressive and We are committed to doing the right thing engaging employment practices.
This year, Policy in the right way and this is reflected in the we have continued to focus on developing Savills is committed to being a good Savills Code of Conduct.
The Code, our approach in those areas highlighted for corporate citizen in all aspects of its which underpins our social, ethical and improvement and we intend to repeat the operations and activities.
The Company, environmental commitments, clearly sets out Best Companies Survey in 2017. therefore, holds itself accountable for its the standards of behaviour that we expect social, environmental and economic impacts our employees to demonstrate and adhere Developing our people for the on the people and places where it does to in their day-to-day working life at Savills.
We endeavour to manage these We want people to grow their careers at impacts in a responsible and sustainable As an absolute minimum, our employee Savills and develop the skills and talent manner.
To fulfil this aim the Group actively policies comply with local legislation in the needed to grow our business.
We firmly embraces a range of policies and practices jurisdictions in which we operate.
We fully believe in the value of developing future that aim to foster a positive approach support the principles of UN Global talent from within the Group and the wider towards corporate responsibility as an Compact, the UN Declaration of Human business community and we are working integral part of our day-to-day activities.
Rights and the International Labour hard to help nurture the entrepreneurs and Organizations ILO Core Conventions.
Our CR policy focuses on those key areas where we believe we can make a Any breaches of our Code of Conduct We continue to invest significantly in the difference.
All of our businesses are may be reported in accordance with the development of all our people, for whom expected to comply with local legal Companys whistleblowing procedure.
we recognise that career development and standards as an absolute minimum, while progression is very important.
In the UK, our localised approach provides the The Modern Slavery Act 2015 came into we rebranded and restructured our training flexibility required to have meaning and force in the UK in October 2015.
We invested in a dedicated impact at local level.
At Savills, we learn publishing a statement required under the Training Suite at our London office and through experience and we actively Modern Slavery Act setting out the steps achieved external recognition of our flagship encourage our businesses to share their we have taken to ensure that no slavery or course, Savills Raising the Bar.
During the experiences and develop best practice to human trafficking is taking place within the year, we also expanded our leadership ensure that we continue to improve as organisation or its supply chains.
This will be programme to our European and Asia an organisation.
published on the Groups website in April.
Pacific businesses, and launched the Savills Studley Academy.
Our people strategy remains focused on supporting delivery of the highest standards We deliver training and development in all of client service through motivated and areas including management and engaged people.
We believe that a positive leadership, client and business skills and culture is essential to high quality client professional and technical skills.
This positive culture is recognise that personal development encapsulated in our business philosophy occurs in many ways and we encourage all and our values.
Our reputation has been our staff to attend conferences, internal built on our people and we believe that staff events, and participate in projects to supplement their Continuous Professional Development CPD.
Savills plc 33 Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility continued For example, in the UK, the format of our In 2017, in Asia Pacific, we are launching the Historically, ours has been a sector which Inspire Programme, which is a two-year has struggled to recruit a high percentage training varies from one-hour masterclasses, webinars, video content, to two-day pitching course for emerging leaders of the business of female graduates and we are who will be assigned a lifetime mentor and encouraged that our graduate recruitment courses and management and leadership workshops.
We encourage and support all schooled in the art of business leadership.
programme is helping to redress the balance at Savills where we have a 50 50 our staff to complete their CPD and all our Valuing diversity internal courses programmes have CPD male to female ratio of graduates at entry.
Savills is a global company and across all points associated with them.
All of this is parts of our business we look to create an supported by a dedicated training team, who Prior to any new appointment consideration inclusive culture in which difference is is given to diversity in its broadest sense, offer individual career development advice accepted and valued.
We believe that our and a dedicated page on the Company with a view to appointing the best-placed inclusive approach gives us a competitive candidate for the role.
intranet which pulls together all the advantage and underpins the success of information our people need to plan their our business by giving us the ability to One of our initiatives was to launch a personal development.
select our employees from the highest Diversity Group in the UK which is now in its quality individuals in the widest available second year.
The objective is to highlight In Asia, we are progressively extending our pool of talent.
CPD programme, tailoring it as appropriate the diversity of our business and ensure that we are communicating clearly and to best meet local requirements.
Our employees come from a wide range of effectively about our people and our clients.
backgrounds and have a diverse range of Initiatives which the Diversity Group have We will also be extending our CPD skills and experience.
We have created a programme across the US.
been involved during the year include: culture in which those skills, experience and perspectives are nurtured and encouraged.
Savills passionately believes that our 1.
Savills with schools Our current graduates attend a local state graduates are the future leaders.
Our We believe that creating an inclusive and graduates are given responsibility from the secondary school to deliver presentations diverse culture supports the attraction and about careers in property.
This highlights day they join the business, in teams which retention of talented people and supports highly value their contribution, allowing the variety of roles in real estate as well as effective performance.
We respect our opportunities for students to engage on them to be involved in some of the worlds people for who they are, their knowledge, most high-profile property deals and an individual basis.
skills and experience as individuals and developments.
Graduates are surrounded as valued members of the Savills team.
by experienced professionals and team 2.
Careers in property We work together to bring out the best in Savills Graduate team collate a guide to members from whom they can seek advice each other and to sustain the strong and learn.
Individual achievement is the real estate industry, looking at working relationship ethic that has nurtured careers in the industry from governing rewarded and Savills look for graduates our can do attitude.
As at 31 December with entrepreneurial flair and diverse skills.
bodies, educational institutions and 2016 our total global workforce of 32,548 employers to provide candidates with a In the UK, Savills were proud to be named colleagues comprised 17,245 males and The Times Graduate Employer of choice for comprehensive guide to joining the Property for the tenth year in a row and we 15,303 females.
Of these, 175 were senior industry.
This is currently shared with all executives 160 males, 15 females continue to see a record number of UK university careers services in the UK.
applicants for this, and our student summer comprising members of the Group Executive Board and Board members scheme and work placement programmes.
Apprenticeships of the corporate entities whose financial In 2016 Savills was also ranked 94 in the We launched a Surveying information is incorporated in the Groups Times Top 100 Graduate Employers.
In 2016 we took 2016 consolidated accounts in this Annual continue to work with some of our UK on five Apprentices into teams across Report.
The Companys Board of Directors industry peers, the Changing the Face of the UK to work in different teams.
After comprised seven members six males and Property CTFOP group, on initiatives six years in the business they will gain one female.
such as an apprenticeship programme to their BSc in Real Estate and their full offer jobs to school leavers.
Gender diversity % In the US, we are committed to 4.
Changing the Face of implementing a Young Leaders Programme, Property CTFOP and launched the Savills Studley Academy We continue to be a member of the a multi-year business mentorship CTFOP group, a collaboration of programme aimed at harnessing the employers, governing bodies and talent of the rising stars.
education providers who work together 53% 47% to raise awareness of the industry, and drive equality.
During 2016 we attended Skills London as well as a number of career fairs, and supported the Trailblazer Apprenticeship scheme with RICS.
We also ran a number of internal Female Male diversity events for our Gender and LGBT groups.
For the first time, we also participated in the London Pride March with the rest of the CTFOP companies.
Savills plc 34 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements We continue to maintain our focus on Our client advocates are supported by a client management system which Across our global business ensuring that our people worldwide work within our specified financial, operational consolidates client data into readily Savills is committed to accessible client intelligence reports.
To and compliance framework and that these reducing the impact that standards are consistently applied.
We complement this initiative we recognise that there are clients that benefit from a full Savills our operations have on the demand the highest professional standards from all of our people all of the time and service offering and to meet these demands, natural environment.
we have a full client management have a zero tolerance to breaches.
However, given the breadth of activities and programme in place with a dedicated Client Relationship Management CRM team.
the number of people we employ there may be occasions when we do not meet the Each of these clients has a client care plan which includes a review of the current year, high standards we aspire to.
Where we fail to reach these high standards, we treat any meeting schedule for key contacts, financials for the year to date and future breach with the utmost seriousness.
years, a client communication plan and a list of agreed actions and responsibilities.
We will progressively extend this approach Clients Building a diverse and inclusive globally, tailored to meet local requirements.
culture Client care Our aim is to have a workforce that is Excellent client service is at the core of our representative of the countries and the business, and we are committed to creating communities in which we live and work and long-term partnerships with all of our clients.
Environment we will continue to endeavour to improve the To do this, we place great importance on representation of women at Board and delivering exce ptional client service over the senior levels within the organisation and to Safe working practices form longer term through building sustained sustain an inclusive culture in which all talent an integral part of our day-torelationships and ensuring that the Savills can thrive.
day business and we aim to client experience is second to none.
find practical solutions to We are keen to improve diversity further, in health and safety risks.
Gaining a deep understanding of our clients its broadest sense.
As an example of our business through regular communications is commitment, in the UK we are committed to fundamental to delivering a service which Savills is committed at the highest level to increasing the diversity of our business in matches the needs of our clients.
Client providing a safe and healthy working order to reflect the needs of our clients and review meetings are a vital part of our environment for all staff and others who are have achieved the RICS Equality Mark.
We approach to client care and we invest in an affected by our businesses so as to minimise have a diversity programme 'Changing the independent client review programme to the risk of injury and ill health.
Face of Property' which focuses on focus on how well we are doing in the way improving diversity across social and we plan and execute the services we Safe working practices form an integral economic background, disability, LBGT, age provide, how well we communicate and part of our day-to-day business and we and gender.
We have also improved our what additional value we give our clients.
aim to find practical solutions to health and maternity policy, introduced mentoring and This provides an important independent safety risks.
To this end, our safety coaching for women and held a number of rating of the standard of our client service strategy is focused on priorities such as events with clients and keynote speakers.
In which is reviewed regularly and used to reducing occupational exposure to addition, we proactively review our refine service delivery.
workplace hazards, maintaining regulatory promotions to ensure that the numbers compliance and seeking to continuously going forward for promotion, by gender, are We have developed our approach in the UK, develop and strengthen our health and in line with the make-up of the division.
For for example, Savills' top clients have a safety arrangements.
the LBGT network, we have held a number dedicated client relationship lead client of events, participated in the London Pride advocate whose core responsibility is to act In 2016, a principal achievement was the March and are now listed on the Stonewall as a focal point for client servicing enquiries, successful introduction by the UK business Diversity Index.
and, in particular, to allow any service issues of a system that tracks the identification of on current instructions to be quickly each individual health and safety risk item As an organisation committed to diversity in identified and addressed.
These client posing a potential risk to certain key teams.
its workforce, we will continue to strengthen advocates also play a key role in reviewing During the current year we will continue to our policies, processes and practices to our performance with the client in tandem promote our positive safety culture.
develop our diversity and inclusion plans with the client research programme to within the Groups markets and geographies, ensure that we understand where we have in alignment with our corporate goals.
met or exceeded expectations and those areas in which we can do better.
Ultimately Ethical commitment this ensures that we have awareness of our Savills is committed to doing business clients real estate plans so that we can legally and ethically wherever it operates.
make the appropriate resources available.
Savills Ethical Trading Policy is detailed in our Group Code of Conduct which is readily accessible in local languages to all staff to support their day-to-day decision making.
Savills plc 35 Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility continued standard carbon accounting measures, Environmental impact Greenhouse gas emissions including extrapolating data from other Across our global business Savills is Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement parts of the reporting period.
To allow committed to reducing the impact that our includes all emission sources required easier year-on-year comparison, a per operations have on the natural environment.
under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic capita intensity ratio based on our number By actively seeking to reduce our Report and Directors Reports Regulations of full-time equivalent employee numbers environmental impact, we are able to achieve 2013 for the financial year to 31 December has been chosen.
We consider that this is increased operational efficiencies and 2016, compared against our baseline year the best means of reflecting our wide range savings, both internally and for our clients.
to 31 December 2013. activities in a quantifiable common factor.
As one of the leading property advisors, Scope As evident in the table below, our total Savills acknowledges the importance of Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement emissions increased by approximately 3% demonstrating leadership in this area.
includes all emission sources required in 2016.
This increase, however, reflects the This includes measuring, and being under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic aforementioned expansion of our reporting accountable for, our global environmental Report and Directors Reports Regulations boundary in 2016, particularly with the impact.
For example, in Australia, we 2013 for the financial year to 31 December addition of the Chinese offices.
Importantly, engage proactively with several key 2016, compared against our baseline year we were able to reduce our Scope 2 industry and not-for-profit environmental to 31 December 2013.
For comparative emissions by more than 350 tonnes, groups, including Property Council purposes, data is also shown for 2015. which is close to a 5% reduction.
Australia, The Green Building Council, For 2016, we continued to expand the and Sydneys Better Building Partnership.
scope of our data collection for our global The corresponding figures for our per As one of the first companies to achieve greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
We are capita intensity ratio show a 10% reduction national signatory status, Savills is now reporting on GHG emissions from our compared to the previous year, which is particularly pleased to partner with UK, Europe, USA, Australia, New Zealand, particularly pleasing given our global FTE CitySwitch Australias flagship tenant Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore and key numbers increased by more than 13% energy efficiency programme.
In subsequent years, during the reporting period.
When Savills claimed the CitySwitch South we will seek to further expand this reporting.
measured against our base year of 2013, Australia signatory of the year award for this now represents an improvement of significant reduction in office-based Methodology more than 20%.
This followed the recent A network of Environmental Reporting refurbishment of our Adelaide premises, Nominees has been established, reporting This substantial reduction has been which not only resulted in reduced energy to the Group Legal Director & Company achieved through progressive initiatives to costs, but also improved work place Secretary, to coordinate more efficient reduce lighting, thermal comfort and productivity and employee satisfaction.
Specialist third computer energy in our offices.
These party-verified environmental reporting measures are complemented by broader Similarly, in the UK, Savills, acting on behalf software has been adopted by this sustainability strategies at the corporate of client Deka, achieved a BREEAM in-use network to ease data collection, ensure level and include the application of green rating of Outstanding for Management conformity and complete the subsequent building principles during the selection status, the highest ever achieved in the UK.
refurbishment of our occupied spaces, The property is one of only two UK the shift to low-emission vehicles and the buildings to achieve this status, and The calculations use a GHG Protocol continued focus on improving energy one of only 56 globally.
Corporate Accounting and Reporting metering monitoring.
Through these and Standard methodology.
In a few cases other supporting measures, Savills is As part of this continuing drive to mitigate complete or wholly reliable data was not confident of making even greater reductions our impacts, and as a hallmark of quality, available.
We have therefore determined the to our corporate environmental footprint in our offices continue to work to secure relevant emissions by using a range of the coming years.
ISO14001 2004 status: the international standard for environmental management systems.
104 Savills offices in the UK have Greenhouse gas emissions data now achieved this accreditation.
Total Global Emissions for Carbon Reporting 2016 2015 2014 In Hong Kong, Savills conducted an GHG Emissions Scope 1 Direct 2,518 1,898 1,292 extensive campaign to drive higher rates of TCO e yr TCO e yr TCO e yr 2 2 2 paper, metals and plastics recycling in the GHG Emissions Scope 2 Energy Indirect 6,450 6,808 5,132 buildings we manage.
Broadening this measure to enable a more humanTotal Gross Emissions Scopes 1 2 8,968 8,706 6,424 orientated approach, Savills actively Total Employees FTE av.
7,998 7,039 4,508 promoted awareness of the benefits of GHG Intensity Ratio 1.12 1.24 1.42 green diets, along with smoke-free buildings.
This latter initiative resulted in 13 Notes: of our managed buildings, as well as our 1 Emissions factors based on Defra DECC Guidelines 2011 and other globally recognised methodologies.
Property Management Headquarters, being 2 Total global emissions for Carbon Reporting 2014: UK, Rest of Europe, Australia New Zealand and Hong Kong.
3 Total gross emissions, divided by total full-time equivalent employees FTE year average.
awarded the Certificate of Merit in the HK Smoke-Free Leading Company Awards.
Savills plc 36 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements During 2016 Savills Studley in the US actively In Asia, Savills Corporate Sevens Charity participated and contributed to not-for-profit Community Tournament is a December fixture in Hong organisations both nationally and on a local Kongs social calendar.
We participated in Innovations for Social and community investment.
attracts many of the citys major companies Learning, an initiative we have been involved for a day of competitive rugby and fund Supporting communities in which with since 2013.
Innovations for Learning is a raising.
This year we updated the format to we operate remains an integral non-profit organisation focused on improving tag rugby, a new and more inclusive format part of our operations.
literacy instruction for children in the primary allowing mixed teams to get involved and, in grades, and through their Tutormate doing so, significantly broadened the appeal Our offices and our people are actively programme, As Tutormates, we work with of the event.
With the tournament in its 32nd involved in their communities through our the students every week to practice word year, over the past four years alone we have support of charitable causes and other exercises and help them learn to read.
To raised over HK$3.5 million for various social and business organisations, including date, 44 Savills Studley employees have childrens rugby charities including Po Leung making financial, in kind and time participated and mentored students on a Kuk Pitch Perfect and Tackling Life projects contributions.
At a local level, we have weekly basis.
We also participated in the Lee and the Hong Kong Society for the Protection developed a series of community National Denim Day, which Savills Studley of Children.
We are enormously proud of this engagement programmes which have a have been involved with since 2005.
Across event and staff willingly give their time and positive impact on the areas where our all offices nationwide, we encourage strong energy to participate in the games and help people live and work to ensure that Savills employee participation in the fundraiser with the considerable amount of organisation is firmly engaged with the communities we and our local branches hold their own involved.
In recognition of Savills Guardians serve.
The case studies below represent .
efforts in support of charitable causes, Savills only a few examples from across the globe Guardian was awarded a number of of the wide variety of activities undertaken The UK operates a Give As You Earn corporate volunteer awards.
This includes an by Savills and its employees during 2016. scheme which allows staff to donate a acknowledgement of Savills Guardians portion of their monthly salary to a registered participation in the Caring Company Scheme The UK business continues to sponsor charity.
We also operate a profit share waiver with it now holding the Caring Company 10 events including a number of graduate-led scheme whereby staff can elect to waive an consecutive years logo.
These include Harry Wentworthelement of any annual profit share in favour Stanleys recent Atlantic Challenge in aid of of registered charities of their choice upon In Australia, we have partnered with The the James Wentworth-Stanley Memorial which the Group augments the donation to Salvation Army to create the Savills Housing Fund, a fund which was established to the chosen charity by 10%.
Based in western Sydney, this create greater awareness of the causes of project has been a great success in suicide and the prevalence of suicide providing safe and stable housing for a family amongst young persons.
The funds raised looking to recover from a history of domestic by the Atlantic Challenge, which involved 39 violence and homelessness.
In 2016 the days of rowing across the Atlantic, will help children were able to attend regular establish a non-clinical crisis centre where schooling and the mother undertook training people experiencing emotional or suicidal that will assist her in gaining employment.
Savills are delighted to have been partnered with Dreams Come True for the last three years and we are proud that our graduates have been successful in raising in excess of 200k for the charity.
2016 saw Savills graduates participate in a number of events including 24 staff cycling 100km around Surrey, 11 staff participating in the 2016 London Marathon and an auction at the Savills annual cricket match.
In March 2017, 21 staff will be trekking 100km across the Arctic Circle.
Savills plc 37 Report and Accounts 2016 Sp tlight on Investment Management Total available capital reaches record highs reflecting sustained institutional appetite for real estate.
183 private equity real estate funds raised total capital of This status is reinforced by the cumulative total of capital raised $108.5bn in 2016, a drop from the $123.5bn raised in 2015.
The in the last four years outstripping figures from 2005-2008, average amount raised in final closings by private closed-ended reflecting the sustained institutional appetite for real estate.
The funds also fell, from the record high in 2015 of $624m to $499m weight of money and continued improvement of occupier market in 2016.
The number of funds closing saw a similar decrease, fundamentals has continued to see capital values increase while representing the fourth annual drop from a post-GFC peak in yields decrease.
The increase in asset capital values has led to 2012 of 211 and the lowest number of funds since 2009. an increase in investor capital moving up the risk curve, with However, this fall in the number of funds closing is not matched debt, value-added and opportunistic funds taking a greater by a fall in total funds raising at present, with Preqin reporting that share of investor capital in 2016, while fundraising for Core and there are a record 533 closed-ended funds in the market up Core Plus strategies fell.
from 489 at the start of the year.
This record number of funds in the market is matched by a record level of capital available, which Deal flow dropped from $241bn in 2015 to $202bn in 2016 owing has now reached a record high of $237bn.
This available capital to financial market volatility and political concerns in the UK and heading into 2017 ensures property will remain a key asset class US, as well as a crowded market, but this still represented a for investors worldwide.
significant increase on the $169bn transacted in 2014.
Savills IMs sale of Potsdamer Platz registered as the tenth largest deal in the year.
Savills plc 38 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Case study Launch of Mercury Fund 2016 saw the launch of the Mercury Fund, managed on behalf of CONAD the largest consortium of independent retailers in Italy and Gruppo Cattolica Number of real estate Assicurazioni a leading Italian insurance company.
funds closed in 2016: The Fund enabled CONAD to sell and lease back 66 of its retail properties in Italy, worth approximately 300m, 183 allowing the firm to focus on its core retail activities.
It down from 244 in 2015 was financed by two leading Italian banks and the Fund will have a 20-year lifespan.
The Mercury Fund, along with other initiatives launched Average amount of capital in 2016, saw our AuM in Italy pass the 2bn mark.
We also transacted over 1.1bn of deals in the country last raised by private equity year, representing c. 15% of the total market.
real estate funds in 2016: $499m down from record high of $624m in 2015 Total capital raised in 2016: $108.5bn down from $123.5bn in 2015 Total capital available to fund managers: $237bn up from $229bn in 2015 Savills plc 39 Report and Accounts 2016
