Strategic report Strategy and business review to select a charitable donation.
We have also Investment 2020 Our impact launched our three-year Diversity and Inclusion Schroders supports Investment 2020, Strategy, focusing firstly on inclusive leadership.
a programme that provides opportunities Externally, we have delivered numerous for school leavers and graduates in asset high impact and diverse community projects management.
As part of this programme, Corporate Responsibility across the globe, such as our Netherlands we recruited across all areas of the business office supporting Dutch charity Alternatives in 2016.
More than half of the trainees from 4 Children, which aims to improve the our 2015 programme progressed to full wellbeing of children, and our New York office time roles within Schroders in 2016, and supporting the Read Alliance initiative, which the majority of those who did not stay at provides tutoring for at-risk children.
We have Schroders went on to attend university.
also received a Long Service Company Award from the East London Business Alliance in Charitable giving acknowledgement of our 10-year partnership In 2016, we donated 1.5 million to charitable with the Mentoring Works programme.
causes around the world with an emphasis on supporting our employees through Give As At Schroders we are aware of our societal Highest ethical standards You Earn GAYE payroll giving and sponsorship responsibilities.
We are proud to support We promote high ethical standards and have matching.
In the UK, 29% of our employees the communities in which we operate and a strong culture of doing the right thing for donated to charitable causes through GAYE encourage our employees to do the same.
our clients, our employees, our shareholders and the firms matching donations increased and the Group.
If an employee does have to 839,000 2015: 763,000, qualifying us Our commitment to Corporate Responsibility any ethical concerns, we have an internal for the Platinum award for payroll giving.
CR has been refreshed and expanded this whistleblowing policy, through which they can year, to ensure that our commitment to act raise concerns about behaviour or decisions In addition to financial donations, we have responsibly, support our clients, deliver value that could indicate potential wrongdoing.
provided gifts in kind, organised frequent to shareholders and make a wider contribution A 24-hour hotline is available for employees charitable collections and encouraged our to society is embedded across our business to report any concerns anonymously, which employees to share their knowledge, skills in all that we do.
To ensure that societal is publicised widely to employees.
Personal and capabilities with charitable organisations.
considerations are addressed at the highest securities trading by employees is subject Through our volunteering policy, we offer level, responsibility for CR sits with an to clearly defined internal policies.
employees up to 15 hours of paid volunteering executive Director.
leave each year and provide a time matching Employees are not permitted to solicit or accept charitable donation for volunteering that takes 2016 highlights any inducements that are likely to conflict with place outside of working hours.
We have seen significant strategic progress their duties.
We have policies in place and train on CR issues in 2016.
We appointed a employees in relation to treating customers Environmental impact dedicated Head of Corporate Responsibility fairly, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, We are committed to minimising the in recognition of the need to respond to terrorist financing, market integrity, gifts environmental impact of our operations fast-changing social issues and expectations, and entertainment and data protection.
and to delivering continuous improvements both internally and externally.
Due diligence is undertaken before entering in our environmental performance.
any material new client relationship and this We have established a global CR champion is enhanced in high-risk countries or for higher In 2015, we set targets for the first time to network, ensuring that we have contacts risk entities or individuals.
purchase electricity from renewable sources.
across the world to contribute to designing, We committed to targeting 60% of our global spearheading and delivering CR initiatives.
This year we also published our first Slavery electricity supply to be from renewable and Human Trafficking statement, to outline sources by the end of 2016 and for that figure Our inaugural firm-wide Employee Recognition the steps we are taking to prevent slavery to increase to 75% by the end of 2020.
We have Scheme was launched in 2016, recognising and human trafficking from taking place in successfully achieved the first of these targets, those who have gone further to demonstrate any part of our business or in our supply as 69% of our electricity purchased globally Schroders values, with the option for winners chains.
This can found on our website at in 2016 was from renewable sources.
We use DEFRAs conversion factors each year to calculate our CO e emissions for 2 all office locations.
Our data has been externally verified and further information will be disclosed in our Carbon Disclosure Project submission later in the year, which will undergo a AA1000 assurance review.
Our total carbon output in 2016 has reduced by 13%.
This is due to both a decline in our global electricity and oil consumption following office moves during the year and a change in guidance from DEFRA on air travel.
For 2015 and 2016 we have used the internationally accepted GHG Protocol Corporate Standard for reporting.
Previous years have been restated accordingly, although 2013 does not include CO e 2 emissions for employees using their own vehicles for business purposes, as this data was not captured in that year.
32 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Chief Executives statement Key performance indicators Our people Market trends Business and financial review Our impact Strategy Business model Key risks and mitigations CO e emissions per employee We have given much consideration to 2 building efficiencies and the Intelligent tonnes Building Management System being installed 2013 4.4 will optimise energy conservation, as well 2014 4.9 as providing trend analysis and advanced 2015 5.5 analytics.
The sustainability objectives we 2016 4.4 set for the building will cover a variety of topics including energy, materials and water use Total CO e emissions and we are targeting a BREEAM rating of 2 Excellent.
Our expectation is that this, tonnes together with moves to new offices in New 2013 7,515 6,522 659 14,696 York and Singapore, will help us to improve 2014 9,055 7,229 659 16,943 our environmental impact.
We are company owned vehicles developing an enhanced strategy for the firm, Scope 2: Electricity building on our long history of philanthropy Scope 3: Business travel and our ongoing commitment to acting responsibly, supporting both our clients and our people and making a positive wider In 2018, our UK headquarters will relocate contribution to society.
We will look to create to 1 London Wall Place, an inspirational new focused attention on a number of specific building in the heart of the City of London.
themes globally to enable concentrated effort This is an exciting opportunity to bring all and impact.
We will also seek to introduce of our London-based employees together in charity and community partnerships that one building in a collaborative and modern offer sustainable, long-term value.
Memberships and awards We received the Payroll We are a member We signed the Women We are a member of The Giving Quality Mark of OUTstanding, the in Finance Charter in Business Disability Forum.
professional network for May 2016, a pledge for LGBT executives and future gender balance across leaders and their allies.
We are an accredited We are a member of We received an East We are a member of London Living the City Mental Health London Business Academy Working Families, the Wage Employer.
Long Service Company UKs leading work-life Award for our mentoring balance organisation.
We are a member of We are included in the We participate in the We are included in the Cityparents a network FTSE4Good Index series.
Carbon Disclosure Dow Jones Sustainability for City professionals who Project CDP climate Indices DJSI.
have a shared interest in change program.
balancing home family life with a progressive career.
We are a member of We are a member of the the Heart of the Citys London Benchmarking alumni programme.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33 Strategic report Strategy and business review been further strengthened by the addition Company resolutions voted on Our impact of a Head of Sustainable Research in 2016.
% Transparency is key in this area.
As well 2012 90 as our quarterly and annual Responsible 2013 96 Investment reports, we regularly publish Environmental, social 2014 97 thematic research, all of which is available and governance 2015 92 at www.
2016 92 We have a long track record of managing exclusion mandates according to clients Our commitment to responsible investing ethical criteria, with 9% of Group AUM has also led to broader engagement with Our world is changing faster than ever.
over 33 billion dedicated to this area.
We have partnered with a As environmental stresses and social number of non-governmental organisations, pressures become more acute, the financial Our strengths are also reflected in the including the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP importance of effectively managing award of an A rating for our ESG strategy, and Action on Sugar, across a wide range environmental and social change is rising.
the highest achievable, from the United of topics including corporate disclosure, High standards of governance and corporate Nations Principles for Responsible Investment implementation of the living wage and social responsibility are important to UN PRI for each of the last two years.
us and we believe they are likely to lead to We were also assessed by the Financial outperformance in the long term.
Reporting Council FRC as a top tier Climate change risk signatory for the UK Stewardship Climate change is a major investment risk, As active fund managers, identifying Code, reflecting our commitment and one to which we are devoting increasing companies that will thrive against this to being actively engaged owners.
Our work has four main strands: backdrop will help us achieve better outcomes research on the investment implications, for our clients.
This is why we are committed In 2016, we engaged with more than 530 education for clients, engaging for improved to the integration of environmental, social companies across the world on ESG issues corporate disclosure, and working with policy and governance ESG factors into our on 761 occasions.
This was a 54% increase makers on the framework for a transition investment processes across geographies in engagements from 2015 and covered to a low carbon economy.
topics such as climate change, human rights, bribery and corruption, board structure and Over the past four years we have published Schroders has always been at the forefront of remuneration.
We also voted on resolutions thematic reports assessing the impact of responsible investing, being amongst the first at 5,168 company meetings.
climate change across a range of industries institutions to add dedicated ESG resources, in from aviation to shipping and coal.
This team has now grown to 11 and has Engagements with companies on ESG issues we wrote about the Climate Conundrum: How to assess climate risks in your portfolio 2012 105 and ran a series of seminars for clients in 2013 109 different geographies.
2014 243 2015 495 Signatory and association Climate change is a major engagement topic member of UN PRI.
2016 761 and we have been assertive in using our votes to promote change, working alongside the Governance engagements included from Aiming for A investor coalition.
also responded to calls for evidence on topics directly and indirectly related to climate change by the European Union and the Financial Stability Board.
Global engagement with companies on ESG issues in 2016 18% 24% UK 28% Americas 30% Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East and Africa See glossary.
34 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Chief Executives statement Key performance indicators Our people Market trends Business and financial review Our impact Strategy Business model Key risks and mitigations Our impact Our tax contribution Integrity and good conduct are central to our The total tax incurred by the Group in 2016 culture.
This means we aim to comply with was 225.3 million 2015: 190.1 million.
both the spirit and letter of the law and are 6% committed to conducting our tax affairs in an open and transparent way.
23% We look to comply with all of our tax filing, tax reporting and tax payment obligations globally.
We also seek to maintain good relationships 48% with the tax authorities in the key jurisdictions in which we operate.
This may take the form 23% of discussing key developments in our business and the potential impact of those developments on the amount of tax we pay.
From time to time, our views on the appropriate tax treatment in UK taxes incurred 108.7m any given situation may differ from those of Europe taxes incurred 52.3m the tax authorities, in which case we will work Asia Pacic taxes incurred 51.2m constructively and proactively to achieve an Americas taxes incurred 13.1m early resolution.
We comply with the UKs Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks and are treated as low risk by HMRC.
Taxes collected In addition to taxes incurred, companies We believe it is important that business builds have an important role in collecting and trust within society regarding its role and administering taxes on behalf of governments, contribution.
With this in mind, we support where the cost of the tax is borne by others.
initiatives to improve international transparency on taxation matters, including OECD measures The largest proportion of the taxes we collect on country-by-country reporting and automatic relates to the income tax and social security exchange of information.
payments we deduct from our employees remuneration.
Certain types of service the Our tax strategy, available at www.
Group provides are subject to VAT and the com taxstrategy, sets out our approach to Group is responsible for the collection of such tax matters across the Group.
This strategy is VAT and for its payment to the tax authorities.
reviewed and approved annually by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The total tax collected in 2016 was 228.8 million 2015: 240.1 million.
Taxes incurred We incur corporate income tax on the profits 10% arising in each country in which we operate.
Corporate tax rates in these territories vary 12% significantly and we apply a consistent global approach to transfer pricing that fairly recognises the economic contribution that our business in each country makes to the Groups 16% overall profit.
On average, we pay corporate 62% income tax at a rate of 20.7% 2015: 20.6%.
See note 6 to the accounts on page 114 for Total global taxes incurred further information.
and collected In our capacity as an employer, we bear payroll UK taxes collected 141.6m taxes including social security contributions Asia Pacic taxes collected 37.0m 454.1m on our employees remuneration.
Americas taxes collected 27.2m 2015: 430.2 million Europe taxes collected 23.0m We also incur value-added tax VAT on our expenses.
While VAT is generally a tax on Further information on the taxes we incur the final consumer of services, as a financial and collect can be found on our website services business part of the VAT we incur at www.
is not recoverable resulting in a cost for the Group.
Other taxes we bear include property taxes and business rates and withholding taxes on payments by clients and within the Group.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35
