Strategic report Strategy and business review Gender diversity in senior management Employee Opinion Survey Our people 2016 2015 Female Male Directors 2 2 12 11 90% Diversity of thought and Senior managers 220 176 544 523 of employees recommend Schroders an inclusive workplace as a good place to work Subsidiary directors 8 9 34 26 are key to creating a 2015: 90% Total senior positive environment management 228 185 575 549 All employees 1,634 2,386 for our people.
1,530 2,254 94% of employees proud to be associated with Schroders 2015: 93% Our culture and values We introduced an initial target of at least 30% We are proud of our reputation as an female representation in senior management 93% employer of choice.
We encourage an roles and senior management compensation believe Schroders behaves responsibly open, collaborative and meritocratic is linked to the achievement of this goal.
We towards our clients working environment in which everyone made good progress in 2016 and under the 2015: 93% has the opportunity to deliver their best.
leadership of the new Group Chief Executive, we have increased female representation in Our approach to business is defined in senior management roles from 25% to 29%, our guiding principles, which we share with including additional appointments to the GMC, 92% all employees and external stakeholders more information on which is on page 48.
Employee satisfaction including clients, combined with our values We have increased our target to at least 33% 2015: 89% of excellence, innovation, teamwork, passion female representation at senior management and integrity.
They are a key part of Schroders level by the end of 2019.
More information culture, define the high standards of on gender pay gap and diversity initiatives behaviour we expect from our people and can be found on page 84. place to work.
As part of our commitment to are embedded in our appraisal process.
driving diversity across the business, in 2016 As we look to recruit from a more diverse we became a member of OUTstanding, the Diversity of thought talent pool, we have taken a number of key professional network for LGBT executives.
Talented people and an ability to understand measures.
We ensure that our entry level and embrace different perspectives are crucial assessment centres are gender balanced.
We are committed to providing equal to the Groups continued success.
Schroders Training is provided to managers on diversity employment opportunities and avoiding is highly diverse in terms of the nationalities issues and unconscious bias.
Where possible, we monitor employed in our local offices globally.
This is a external mentoring programmes are provided the ethnicity, age and gender composition key strength that provides us with local market to encourage diversity.
We offer maternity and of our existing workforce and those applying knowledge and a deep understanding of our paternity coaching, shared parental leave and for jobs.
Our Group Chief Executive takes flexible working policies to help ensure that accountability for ensuring that we foster an we support employees having children.
Our equal opportunities policy is to give fair inclusive culture, which strives for diversity in consideration to all employment applications, everything we do, across our global workforce.
A series of employee resource groups have including from disabled people, considering been established this year which represent the particular aptitudes and abilities.
If employees As part of this, we were one of the first diversity of Schroders and are an important become disabled, employment continues signatories of the Women in Finance Charter, part of our approach to diversity and inclusion.
wherever possible, with retraining given if a pledge towards gender balance across They include gender and sexual orientation, necessary.
For the purposes of training, financial services.
We are committed multi-cultural, disability and carer groups that career development and progression, all to striving for gender equality across are a key feature of our identity as an inclusive employees are treated equally as part of our our business.
Our values We strive for We work with We have Excellence Innovation Teamwork Passion Integrity We want to excel We challenge how We work as one We demonstrate We build strong at what we do.
We things are done and team for our enthusiasm for what relationships based continually strive anticipate future clients.
We value we do through the on trust and for better.
the contribution dedication and confidentiality.
of individuals energy we bring to and encourage servicing our clients.
30 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Chief Executives statement Key performance indicators Our people Market trends Business and financial review Our impact Strategy Business model Key risks and mitigations commitment to make Schroders an inclusive briefings, videos, an internal magazine and Employees by length of service place to work for all.
More on our approach a social intranet.
Annual Inside Schroders to diversity and inclusion can be found at Live meetings are held with the Group Chief www.
Executive to discuss the progress made 21% by the Group and future challenges and We are proud to be an accredited London objectives.
Similar events are held across Living Wage employer.
All of our Londonour offices globally.
42% based employees, including contractors, are paid above the London Living Wage.
Retaining our talented people We have a highly engaged, experienced 24% Wellbeing and stable workforce, with 45% of employees Our employee diversity includes a having been with the firm six years or more.
13% multi-generational workforce and it is vital Overall turnover in 2016 was 9%.
We focus on that our people are provided with the support retaining our most talented employees and and opportunities they need to optimise our retention of high performing employees 3 years their health and overall wellbeing.
45 years 610 years As well as being members of several Over 20% of our global roles are filled 10 years thought-leadership networks, we provide a with internally developed talent 30% in the comprehensive calendar of wellbeing events UK as we provide our employees with the for our people across five key areas: mind, opportunities and fulfilling work experience Age profile of employees workplace, body, financial and work-life they need to achieve their potential.
There is also extensive resilience heavily in developing their knowledge, skills 14% and mental health training embedded within and capabilities.
Employees have access 18% our learning and development programmes.
to a range of learning and development programmes in order to maintain and Engaged and highly-motivated employees increase technical competence in their We have recently completed our firm-wide roles and align behaviours with our values.
The results 29% demonstrate that our employees are engaged Competitive remuneration is important in with the firm, understand our values and delivering this and our approach is explained 39% believe that we have a culture of behaving in the Remuneration report on page 68. responsibly towards our clients.
We have invested in our corporate Under 30 communications this year as we recognise 3140 that good communication is key to delivering 4150 high levels of engagement.
It helps employees 50 to understand and deliver our strategic objectives.
We communicate regularly through a variety of channels, including management Employees by region 8% 17% 55% 20% UK Asia Pacic Europe Americas Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31
