Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility To be successful, we must operate in a responsible manner.
Taxpayers expect them to be effective: governments expect them to be efficient and improved: society expects them to be delivered ethically, safely and with respect for people and the environment.
Underpinning this ambition are three key principles, We strive to constantly fulfil these which frame and shape our approach and our activities: expectations, recognising our responsibilities and seeking to earn 1 A public service ethos is inherent, and essential, the trust and respect of all public to our work: service stakeholders.
2 How we deliver within our contracts is as important For a business founded and focused on the delivery of as what we deliver: and public services contributing to the lives of thousands 3 O ur public service ethos is not limited to the of citizens every year corporate responsibility is not perimeter of our contracts.
It is, and must always be, inextricably embedded in all that we do.
During 2016, we have built on these foundations, reviewing and refreshing our Values: strengthening We believe that true success in providing public our governance and risk management processes: and services around the world for us, for our customers introducing new areas of focus.
and for society requires commitment to a social as well as commercial contract.
We can only achieve a We have also continued to make progress against sustainable business model by doing the very best for the long-term objectives we have set for sustainable governments and society, not just within our contracts, development, but we are never complacent.
recognise that there is still work to be done to ensure that as a business we always uphold our public service To better reflect our commitment to corporate ethos and meet our responsibilities to our stakeholders responsibility, in 2016 we refreshed our strategy and and the wider community.
clarified our ambition, to be a trusted partner of governments, delivering superb public services that Here, we share a summary of our approach to managing transform outcomes and make a positive difference corporate responsibility, along with our initiatives and forour fellow citizens.
We measure how we perform on four key areas of focus for the business: Our People, including how we support the communities we work in: Compliance with Ethical Standards: Health and Safety: and Our Environmental Impacts.
A more detailed corporate responsibility report for the year is available on our website: www.
com 64 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Our Values Trust, Care, Innovation, Pride.
First and foremost, we live by our Values.
They are at the heart of the behaviours we expect in our business.
While our Code of Conduct defines what we expect, our Values define the how.
We have worked with our employees to review our Values Pride alongside the review of our strategy, refreshing and We want to be proud of what we do.
simplifying them to ensure they remain current, relevant, We know that the work we do is important, and we take and easily and consistently understood.
We have also put pride in doing it well.
systems and processes in place to ensure that they are consistently applied across our organisation.
We value energy and enthusiasm, skill and experience, and an ability to make hard work fun.
Trust We work hard to earn trust and respect.
We contribute both as individuals and as part of a team.
We deliver on our promises: are open, straightforward Being Proud of what we do acknowledges that we are and honest: do the right thing: and take personal doing things well and making a real difference.
responsibility for getting things done.
Embedding our Values Building Trust will sustain the business we have and Our Values were launched globally at the start of build the business we want in the future.
2016 and rolled out across the business in all regions, supported by a comprehensive suite of communication Care and education tools.
The Divisions have worked hard to We care deeply about the services we provide and the embed the Values, designing and launching campaigns communities we serve, and we look after each other.
and initiatives which aim to integrate the Values into We work together to deliver high-quality public existing ways of working and bring the Values to life.
services, often of great importance to the nation and The Values have also been incorporated across the communities we serve.
the Serco Management System SMS, our Code of We take care of each other, and those we serve, and we Conduct and other existing channels, publications and aim to make a positive difference to people's lives.
We have also updated our annual employee engagement survey with the Values, which has enabled Demonstrating Care will make a positive difference to us to measure how successfully they have been people's lives and ensure we look after each other.
Innovation We aspire to be better than anyone else at what we do.
We continuously improve our ways of working, and try new ideas, big and small.
We share our knowledge and experience and embrace change, knowing that if we don't provide innovation and value for money to our customers, our competitors will.
Driving Innovation will differentiate us from our competitors and add value to our customers.
65 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Our approach To us, being a responsible business means ensuring that we: comply with the law as well as meet the standards we have set for ourselves: deliver on our commitments and are open and transparent: engage and motivate our people, act safely and with respect for the environment and the communities we work in: understand and minimise business risk and achieve appropriate financial returns: act swiftly to rectify error, learn from our mistakes and strive for improvement.
By being responsible, we will support the communities we serve, earn trust and respect, strengthen our reputation and brand, enhance our financial performance and create sustainable value for our shareholders.
Managing corporate responsibility You can find out more about the SMS at: www.
com about sms The Serco plc Board has ultimate responsibility for the Group's business strategy, including Corporate Our Code of Conduct Responsibility CR, and for setting the Groups culture, Our Code of Conduct sets out in a concise way the values and ethical standards.
Mike Clasper, a Nonrules, standards and behaviours that are expected Executive Director, takes responsibility at Board level from everyone who works for and on behalf of Serco, for CR and chairs Sercos Corporate Responsibility irrespective of their role and location.
Together with our Committee CRC which has oversight of our approach Values and our policies and standards, it is an integral to CR, its governance and the standards and policies in component in the SMS.
More information on the CRC can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 92.
All Serco employees are expected to know, use and live our Code.
Ed Casey, Group COO, is a member of the CRC, and is responsible for promoting the Groups approach to CR To support them, we make sure everyone who works and its effective implementation, as agreed with the for or with us understands our Code and knows how to Executive Committee.
We provide confidential resources and support for everyone to get advice or report Code violations.
Each CR element has a designated Group Lead, responsible for engaging with Divisional Chief We deal effectively with any concerns about conduct Executives to develop CR strategy, objectives and and put improvements in place quickly after we have performance indicators relevant to their business identified them.
operations and strategy, and monitor and report on performance.
In 2017 we will look to incorporate the work on defining behaviours, which forms part of the roll-out of our Serco Management System refreshed Values, into the Code.
The Serco Management System SMS is the Group's management framework, describing how we do You can find out more about our Code of Conduct at: business.
It defines the rules which govern the way https: codeofconduct.
com we operate and deliver our strategy and the way Ensuring ethical standards webehave.
Ethical issues remain a business risk in certain regions The elements that make up the SMS are regularly and industry sectors where we operate or may operate reviewed to ensure they are up-to-date and meet in the future.
our needs as well as relevant laws and regulatory requirements in the countries where we operate.
We therefore have a framework of Divisional and regional managers, who are responsible for the All our employees complete appropriate SMS training governance and development of our ethics and when they join Serco and are required to comply with compliance programmes, on issues including business these standards at all times.
Failure to comply with the integrity and values, anti-bribery and corruption and SMS can have significant consequences for individuals, human rights.
managers or the Company as a whole.
66 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Human rights and slavery Third party due diligence We seek to respect and uphold the human rights of Our Business Conduct and Ethics Group Standard individuals in all aspects of our operations wherever sets the global requirement for due diligence in the we operate.
Our Human Rights Group Standard engagement of third parties.
This includes, but is not demonstrates this commitment and sets out limited to, customers, suppliers, agents and other third expectations for individual and corporate behaviour parties.
It details the process that must be followed across our business in regards to human rights.
to seek to ensure that the values and practices of anyone working with us are aligned to our own, and We recognise our responsibility to understand the human to proactively identify and seek to mitigate any risks rights risks in our business including those relating inherent in a potential partnership or agreement before to slavery and human trafficking and any potential proceeding into any arrangement.
For suppliers where impacts associated with the services we provide, the a potential issue has been raised or they operate in high customers we work with and the suppliers we use.
We are risk areas, we assess the issues and where appropriate committed to the fair and appropriate treatment of our undertake enhanced due diligence.
employees and those who are in the facilities we manage or benefit from the services we provide.
Once we have made an agreement, we seek to monitor for changes or misconduct so that we remediate any We use International Human Rights Standards such incidents that may occur.
as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 2011 UN Guiding Principles In 2016, we introduced a consistent global approach to as frameworks to assist our decision-making and due diligence.
In 2017 we will continue to build on this to constructive engagement.
seek greater assurance from those selected suppliers in specific risk areas of their commitment to ensuring that In view of the introduction of the Modern Slavery Act slavery and human trafficking is not within their supply in the UK and in recognition of our responsibility to chain.
We will also update our procedure for taking on understand potential human rights impacts associated new suppliers.
with the services we provide, we have completed a Company-wide ethics, compliance and human rights Suppliers and partners risk assessment, including the risk of slavery and human Our suppliers play a key role in achieving our business trafficking taking place in our business and across our performance and we recognise the importance of direct supply chain.
selecting suppliers who are committed to ethical standards and business practices compatible with ours.
The findings show a low risk of slavery and human trafficking taking place in our direct business We have a Procurement and Supply Chain function operations.
However, we recognise the need to to deliver consistent procurement processes in the continue to review performance, particularly in our selection and management of suppliers: to manage direct supply chain.
the risk through appropriate procurement strategies and supplier selection criteria, ensuring that sourcing During the year we have also reviewed our training on initiatives are fair and ethical to both Serco and protecting human rights, and the prevention of slavery participating suppliers: and to ensure compliance with and human trafficking in particular.
laws and regulations, our ethical standards, Code of Conduct and human rights throughout our supply chain.
All employees are made aware of our commitment to human rights.
In recognised high-risk areas, Our Supplier Code of Conduct, which supplements our specific training on slavery and human trafficking employee Code, applies to all our suppliers, including is also undertaken.
It formalises our practices and makes clear that we expect all our suppliers to behave in a In 2017 we will build on our existing slavery and human manner compatible with our own standards.
trafficking training and look to share best practice whilst putting more effective guidance in place regarding risk As with our suppliers, we seek to ensure that our joint assessments for slavery and human trafficking.
venture partners meet the standards we have set ourselves and continue to enhance our systems and You can review our 2016 Slavery and Human Trafficking processes to this end.
Statement on our website: www.
com 67 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Our People Our services are delivered through people: we are entirely dependent on their skills and commitment to deliver the services our customers expect.
They are the single greatest contributor to our reputation.
People flourish when they are engaged, inspired and motivated to give their best.
We value diversity and work to create an inclusive and fair environment for all.
To support our colleagues and ensure they are able to improving, as they are seeing positive changes in the achieve their potential and work to the best of their ability, way we manage our business and serve our customers.
we have policies, systems and processes for recruiting, Leadership engagement has increased by 17% to the developing, rewarding, reviewing and managing them.
highest level in five years.
Our leaders are feeling more These reflect our Values, comply with labour and confident about the future direction of Serco.
They also employment laws and regulations wherever we work, feel recognised and supported in their development.
are aligned appropriately with local tradition and culture, and help to build trust in our working relationships.
Diversity and inclusion We want to be a place people are proud to work.
Leadership and development Creating a diverse and inclusive workplace to attract and We run a series of programmes aimed at developing retain talented people from all backgrounds and cultures the skills and capabilities our business needs and talent plays an important part in how we will achieve this.
programmes which help to identify, select and develop high-potential talent across our operations for future We are proud of our approach to diversity to date, and leadership roles, including work to encourage female our Viewpoint findings confirm that our employees application and selection.
believe we value diversity as an organisation.
However, in recognition of the increased focus on gender and In 2016 we introduced a five-day residential course at equal pay legislation in some of the regions where we Oxford University, Sad Business School, which over the operate, we have refreshed our approach and updated next four years will see some 400 people pass through our goals as follows: to attract, develop and retain a course, developed by and exclusively for Serco, employees from the broadest possible talent pool: to help build a cadre of managers who are aligned, create an inclusive environment with zero tolerance and have developed specific insights into issues such to any form of discrimination: promote equality of as strategy, leadership, operational excellence and opportunity and diversity within the communities where account management.
we operate: and develop service delivery innovation In 2017 we will continue to identify opportunities to through a culture of inclusion, enhancing collaboration expand the scope of our leadership pipeline and and encouraging employees with a broad range of associated development programmes.
perspectives, experiences and styles to share ideas.
Engagement Each Division has developed their own three-year diversity and inclusion strategy and plan aligned to We know that engaged employees deliver a better these goals.
service for our customers, and are more productive and fulfilled in their roles, driving higher levels of Our focus moving into 2017 is to ensure appropriate business performance.
measurement and monitoring of Divisional delivery, with clear and robust data.
We measure employee engagement annually through our Viewpoint employee survey and use the survey Gender diversity data results to set an annual engagement roadmap which At 31 December 2016, the numbers of men and women aims to drive improvements in engagement.
employed by Serco were as follows: In 2016 we focused on the key drivers of engagement as Number Percentage per our 2015 results Connection to Serco, Learning and Male Female Male Female Development, Taking Action on Employee Feedback, Directors 7 2 78% 22% and Recognition and targeted improvements in these Senior managers 58 12 83% 17% areas across our Divisions.
Employees 25,989 18,784 58% 42% Our 2016 Viewpoint survey showed a 1% improvement Total 26,054 18,798 58% 42% in employee engagement, continuing a positive trend At 31 December 2016, we had gender information on 94% of employees.
that our employees experience of working for Serco is Source: Serco global HR systems, figures provided on a total headcount basis: excludes joint ventures.
68 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Recognition In 2016, our focus has been on strengthening our AntiBribery and Corruption ABC governance, controls We believe it is important to highlight and celebrate and business compliance, working to ensure that the the people who bring our Values to life, who enable our procedures already in place are adequate, and seeking organisation to succeed and encourage us all to follow to improve and enhance them.
In 2017 we will continue to build on and strengthen Our global employee recognition programme is the ourprocedures.
Serco Pulse Awards, which showcases behaviours that exemplify our Values.
Employees are nominated by Speak Up their colleagues for Divisional Awards and these award Where our people believe they have information which winners are put forward for Global Pulse Awards.
In 2016 demonstrates malpractice, wrongdoing or a violation 105 people were selected for Divisional Pulse Awards, of of our Code of Conduct or Values, they are required to whom approximately one quarter will go on to receive raise the issue and bring it to management attention.
Global Pulse Awards, to be announced in 2017.
Our whistleblowing service Speak Up is available to all Serco employees, enabling them to raise concerns in Our Divisions also develop and implement local recognition schemes.
confidence and without fear of reprisal.
Further details of our performance against our People 64% of our employees feel confident that appropriate action would be taken if they raised an issue or reported Key Performance Indicators can be found in the table on page 72. unethical behaviour and 70% of employees currently feel they can report unethical conduct without fear.
Our performance Of the Speak Up cases closed in 2016, 97% were This section provides an overview of our performance investigated representing 100% of all cases in key areas during the year.
More detailed information appropriately and sufficiently informed to enable is available in our CR report at www.
53% of cases resulted in some corrective Compliance with ethical standards action being taken, 16% resulted in disciplinary action To enable compliance with our Code of Conduct, being taken, and a further 6% resulted in one or more employees being dismissed.
64% of the cases were policies and standards, and to ensure behaviours meet our expectations, every employee is required closed within three months of the issue being raised.
to participate in our 'Serco Essentials' compliance Recognising the need to continually improve, in 2017 training programme when joining Serco and complete we will upgrade our case management system and a training refresh annually.
Managers are also required ensure consistent standards of investigation across to complete a more detailed 'Serco Essentials plus' allDivisions.
Community In addition, to help employees to take the correct We are privileged to be able to make a positive course of action in a given situation, we have a suite difference to the lives of thousands of people, every of ethics tools to enhance our existing systems and day.
For us, our care for our communities is indistinct processes.
This currently includes: from the services we deliver to our customers.
same time, our community engagement and investment helps us to better understand community needs, and Gifts and Hospitality Register.
operate existing contracts more effectively, particularly Speak Up.
where we are delivering services directly to the public.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC Toolkit.
Our community activity is as diverse as our business, In 2017 we will review all our ethics training courses to and managed locally.
Our Divisions and individual ensure they remain up-to-date and expand our suite contracts are best placed to understand the needs of ethics tools.
of the communities in which they operate, how these align with the aims of customers and how they relate to Anti-bribery and corruption ouremployees.
No matter what local custom may be, all forms of bribery and corruption, and even the smallest For details of our community engagement initiatives, facilitation payment, are forbidden.
Our policy is see our CR report, available on our website at one of zero tolerance.
com 69 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Health and Safety reporting incident rates normalised by numbers of employees with frequency rates normalised by one Our aspiration is zero harm.
As a result, our historical data Strong health and safety performance seeks to ensure and 2016 targets have been recalibrated.
the safety of our people and protects our reputation.
In 2015 we sold the majority of our private sector Wherever they work and whatever their role, our people offshore BPO business which operated in a low safety must adhere to stringent health and safety procedures.
risk environment, resulting in lower safety rates across These procedures are embedded in the SMS and are the all key indicators.
To provide data that is meaningful minimum standards that apply.
A core element of this is and comparable, we have restated our historical data understanding the safety risks we face as a business.
to exclude the disposed operations.
The data also We operate in a number of heavily regulated, safetyexcludes joint venture operations.
critical areas, which place stringent requirements upon Safety performance in 2016 has improved consistently us.
We seek to have the systems in place to deliver these across all Divisions and indicators, with the exception of requirements, as reflected in the regulatory approvals serious physical assaults.
and licences we operate under.
This also means that we have regular regulatory oversight.
Together, these Lost Time Incidents factors give us our controls framework for managing our Lost time incidents LTIs relate to any work-related Health, Safety and Environment HSE responsibilities.
occurrences incurring one full lost working day or more, Our HSE strategy and provide a general overview of safety performance.
In 2016 the number of LTIs reduced by 21%, compared Our global strategic objectives are: to 2015, to 459, the lowest number of incidents reported to drive improvement and focus on safety culture to in the last five years.
This positive performance is increase leader and employee engagement, which reflected in the Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate we will measure through our Viewpoint employee LTIFR, which fell 14% and exceeded our target which was set at a 5% reduction against a 2015 baseline.
When engagement survey: physical assault events are removed, manual handling to raise visibility and apply a consistent approach and slips, trips and falls continue to be the main cause to the management and reporting of third party of incidents.
incidents, particularly in regard to contractors: to review and improve consistency in approach In regard to LTIs which are classified as major incidents, to how incidents are managed and reported, with the overall number fell by 26% during the year.
This specific emphasis on lessons learned and the sharing is reflected in the frequency rate Major Incident Frequency Rate MIFR per one million hours worked of these across the organisation: and at 0.27, a 20% improvement on 2015 and ahead of our to drive improvement and focus on environmental target of a 5% reduction against a 2015 baseline.
issues and management to support delivery of the Groups environmental target.
Divisions will continue to drive a range of initiatives appropriate to the safety risks of their operations to In 2016 we have pursued these objectives in all regions, drive continuous safety improvement.
To monitor this undertaking a range of initiatives to raise awareness we have set the following targets for 2017 based on and understanding of HSE issues and introducing new our actual 2016 performance: reporting processes, tools and capabilities to improve our performance.
To reduce our Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate per one million hours worked by 10%.
Our areas of focus in 2017 will include: the ongoing To reduce our Major Incident Frequency deployment of the new safety climate tool: embedding our new reporting process: reviewing our online incident Rate per one million hours worked by 15%.
management reporting tool: and building on our work in Physical assaults 2016 to improve the capture of near-miss events.
We recognise the risks of the different environments Our HSE Performance in which we operate, some of which can result in our staff being assaulted.
In particular custodial and During 2016 we continued the work started in 2015 to immigration operations in the UK and Asia Pacific are better define the key indicators we use and how rates challenging environments.
Here they complete detailed are calculated.
This has resulted in publication of a risk assessments, regularly review controls and drive revised Incident Management and Reporting Group initiatives to better understand and manage this risk.
We also replaced 70 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements A number of initiatives have been implemented, Greenhouse gas emissions including: review of location-specific violence and antiOur reporting year for greenhouse gas emissions scope social behaviour strategies: increased communications: 1 and 2 covering direct emission sources such as fuel shared learnings: strategic threat assessments: combustion, company vehicles, fugitive emissions, improved security to intercept illicit items: improved purchased electricity, heat and steam is one quarter staff-prisoner relationships: review of intervention behind our financial year, namely 1 October 2015 to and fide-escalation techniques.
We quantify and report to ISO 14064-1 2012, using an operational control approach to Overall the number of physical assaults reported in defining our organisational boundary.
The classification 2016 has decreased by 14% to 625 compared to 2015, of reporting boundaries is set out in detail in our Basis resulting in a 5.7% improvement in the physical assault of Reporting 2016 document, available on our website, frequency rate.
Whilst the overall number of assaults has www.
com reduced, the percentage that are classified as serious has significantly increased in 2016.
This may partly be We report all material emission sources for which due to better definition but also reflects that when we consider ourselves responsible and have set interventions are happening they appear to be more our materiality threshold at 5%.
The serious physical assault frequency rate has Our Environmental Performance nearly doubled, compared to 2015, to 0.93 and fails to 2014 and 2015 restatement meet the target improvement set at 5%.
When our 2015 data was verified it identified a number We will continue to develop a range of initiatives to of factors which are significant enough to require the drive reductions in assaults and particularly serious restatement of our 2014 and 2015 GHG emissions see physical assaults.
To monitor this we have set the 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report.
following targets for 2017 based on our actual 2016performance: To address these factors in 2016 we have invested significantly in our data collection processes and To reduce our Physical Assault Frequency Rate per systems to ensure independent ISO 14064-3 one million hours worked by 6%.
verification prior to data publication.
To reduce our Serious Physical Assault Frequency 2016 performance Rate per one million hours worked by 10%.
Our corporate target for 2016 was to reduce our carbon Our environmental impact emissions intensity which we calculate as tonnes of CO e per FTE by 3% for the frontline operations We recognise our responsibility to ensure that any 2 against our 2015 performance.
Our actual intensity rate adverse impact on the environment is reduced, or at 5.98 showed an increase against 2015 which meant where possible, eliminated by applying the most we fell short of our target by 18%.
Contributing factors appropriate management systems at contract level to our 2016 performance have been increased marine whether designed by our customers or by us.
oil CO e 15% and energy-intensive contracts eg 2 The SMS sets out how we will deliver our environmental leisure centres, a reduction in FTE count and further commitment, aligned to the ISO14001:2015 standard on improvements to data capture and reporting.
Whilst our intensity rate has shown an increase overall, Across more than two thirds of our business, we are our actual carbon emissions have improved year-onworking on our customers premises and are therefore year with a reduction of 2.4% over the last 12 months.
not in direct control of the environment in which we When a longer view is taken we have reduced our actual operate.
That is why collaborative working with our carbon emissions by 27% against our emissions in 2013. customers on environmental issues is important.
See table on page 72 for further details.
Our activities are typically managed locally, and we Recognising the evolving profile of our business and undertake a wide range of initiatives focused on sale of the private sector offshore BPO business at the reducing our carbon emissions intensity, improving end of 2015, we will use 2017 to review our approach energy and fuel efficiency, improving our waste to target setting in terms of absolute intensity based management processes and promoting biodiversity.
We have not set a specific target reduction for 2017 whilst the review is completed.
Carbon disclosure In 2016, we responded again to the Carbon Disclosure In addition we propose to look at increasing the scope Project FTSE350 CDP request for information, of our reporting on scope 3 indirect emissions due to achieving a score of B. Serco's activities emissions in future.
71 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Corporate Responsibility Key Performance Indicators 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Var % Ethics and compliance Upheld cases of anti-competitive behaviour Number 0 0 0 0 0 Upheld cases of corrupt behaviour Number 0 0 0 0 0 Upheld cases of human rights violations Number 0 0 0 0 0 Our people 1 Female employees in total workforce % 44.5 40.9 44.4 42.6 41.9 Proportion of days lost to sickness % 2.25 2.83 3.25 3.17 3.2 2 Staff turnover % 26.9 31.5 31.0 32.8 33.8 Health and safety Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate Per 1m hours worked 5.97 5.12 4.81 5.79 4.98 14.04 Major Incident Frequency Rate Per 1m hours worked 0.53 0.25 0.33 0.34 0.27 19.58 Physical Assault Frequency Rate Per 1m hours worked 6.31 5.11 7.04 7.19 6.78 5.72 Serious physical assaults Per 1m hours worked 0.38 0.49 0.93 -91.96 3 Prosecutions Number 0 0 1 0 0 Environment CO emissions tonnes n a 398,519 343,717 298,986 291,883 2.4 2 Headcount intensity tCO e 1,000 FTE n a 7.27 6.32 5.16 5.98 -15.89 2 Scope 1 emissions tCO e n a 187,217 173,441 162,198 182,819 -12.71 2 Scope 2 emissions tCO e n a 211,302 170,276 136,789 109,064 20.27 2 Prosecutions, fines or notices Number 0 0 0 0 0 Notes: The performance analysis is based on reported data as at 17 February 2017.
Additional data may arise after this date.
Where this occurs, numbers will be corrected in the following years table.
There have been some adjustments to reflect late reporting of data in regards to 2015 data.
All data excludes JVs and historical BPO data to enable a like-for-like comparison.
Our private sector offshore BPO business was sold in December 2015.
The People figures shown above are representative only of employees for whom the relevant data is available.
Current levels are in line with benchmark targets for the geographies and markets in which we operate, however we continue to try to improve them.
Annual targets are managed at local and regional levels.
Gender data in 2013 excludes Serco Asia Pacific.
The current trend in turnover is driven by the planned reconfiguration and reduction of our global workforce, in line with Group strategy.
2014 health and safety prosecution relates to an incident in 2011.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Secretary 22 February 2017 72 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Directors Report 74 Corporate Governance Report 74 Board of Directors 76 Chairman's Governance Overview 78 Board and Governance 80 Group Risk CommitteeReport 82 Audit Committee Report 90 Nomination CommitteeReport 92 Corporate Responsibility Committee Report 94 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 96 Remuneration Report 126 Directors' Report 132 Directors' Responsibility Statement 73
