Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Corporate Responsibility Committee Report In February 2016, the Board approved the retirement I was pleased to be asked by Sir Roy Gardner to of the Board Oversight Committee and the Chair the Corporate Responsibility Committee Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee, because I believe that in all our actions, we must and the establishment in their place of the Group ensure that our stakeholders are proud to be Risk Committee and the Corporate Responsibility associated with Serco and that it is crucial that we Committee.
This change reflected the maturity and only do business where we can 'do the right things changing focus of the Board Committees following in the right way' in the eyes of our customers and the work undertaken to embed the policies and also the public.
In support of this the Corporate procedures put in place as part of the Corporate Responsibility Committee will continue to develop Renewal Programme.
It is clear that there continues and consider its remit around the four key areas of to be significant progress in the delivery and Health and Safety, People, Ethics and the Corporate embedding of the Programme which has been and Responsibility Framework, and I look forward to remains key to the turnaround of the Group.
As part reporting back to shareholders on our progress.
of the broadening of the Committee and the maturity of the Corporate Renewal Programme, Lord Gold stood down from the Committee as the independent third-party member, having finished a further review into Sercos approach to governance and ethics.
I Mike Clasper would like to take the opportunity to thank him for his Senior Independent Director and Chair of the guidance, oversight and commitment to Serco from Corporate Responsibility Committee 2013 until 2016.
Committees responsibilities Ethics the Committee will consider Speak Up reports and the approach to its whistleblowing The Committee reviews and scrutinises the Companys processes and any relevant metrics or themes arising continued approach to Corporate Renewal matters and also focuses on forward-looking corporate in relation to the Groups whistleblowing, bribery or responsibility matters.
It is intended that over time, the fraud processes.
Where relevant these matters will Committees focus will shift more fully to corporate be considered in conjunction with the Group Audit responsibility once the Corporate Renewal Programme Committee or the Group Risk Committee.
workstreams become fully embedded in the Companys Corporate Responsibility Framework the culture and can be considered as 'business as usual'.
Committee will provide oversight, guidance and The Board has agreed that the Committees focus on challenge on the implementation of the Companys Corporate Responsibility will have four main aspects: Corporate Responsibility Framework and will consider related policies and strategies on how Health and Safety while overall Health and the Company conducts its business and guards its Safety will remain a matter reserved to the Board, reputation, including on such matters as human the Committee is charged with considering the rights and slavery.
Companys approach to Health and Safety in practice and will review in detail any key trends and patterns Detailed terms of reference for the Committee of behaviour that emerge, escalating any matters of can be found at www.
com about the-boardimportance to the full Board.
and-governance People the Committee will consider the Companys policies relating to its people and matters of relevance to its management of people, such as the Viewpoint survey and the Companys Human Rights policy.
92 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Membership and Attendees The Committee comprised both Executive and NonExecutive Directors during the year and as at 31 December 2016 the members of the Committee were Mike Clasper Chair, Ed Casey, Sir Roy Gardner and Angie Risley.
Meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Director Business Compliance and Ethics, and the Managing Director, Group Operations.
Activities of the Committee during 2016 During the year the Committees key activities included: Reviewing Lord Golds report into the progress made by the Company in embedding ethical behaviour as part of the Corporate Renewal Programme and discussing the findings with Lord Gold: Agreeing the proposed remit and focus of theCommittee: Considering the Companys Health and Safety performance and reviewing regular health, safety and environment reports including lessons learnt and action plans from particular incidents: Reviewing the continued progress of the Corporate Renewal Programme including the training programmes, SMS self-assessment process, compliance assurance and contract management performance and reporting: Receiving briefings on the Companys management of ethical conduct and ethical issues: and Receiving a briefing on the Culture Index included within the annual Viewpoint employee engagement survey to monitor the ongoing culture of theCompany.
2017 priorities and focus During 2017, the Committee will focus on undertaking detailed deep-dive reviews into key areas of its remit to ensure that the appropriate focus, control and rigour remain in place throughout the Company.
