STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED In particular, the Adjusted EPS targets are reviewed prior to each RECRUITMENT OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum Performance assessment grant by taking account of internal and external expectations of future Salaries for newly appointed Directors will be set to reflect their skills Adjusted EPS growth for the business.
The Committee reserves the Long-Term Incentivises Annual grants of performance 150% of salary The Committee determines and experience, the Companys intended pay positioning and the market discretion to set different targets for future awards, without consulting Incentive sustained shares which vest subject to 200% of salary performance conditions and weightings rate for the role.
with shareholders, providing that, in the opinion of the Committee, the Plan LTIP performance over performance measured over three in exceptional at the start of each year, providing Where it is appropriate to offer a below median salary initially, the new targets are no less challenging in light of the circumstances at the longer term years and continued service circumstances, such that the targets are not materially Committee will have the discretion to allow phased salary increases the time than those used previously.
The targets for awards granted The use of longerExecutives are entitled to receive as upon recruitment less challenging over time for newly appointed Directors, even though this may involve under this Remuneration Policy are set out in the Annual Report term performance the value of dividend payments that For 2016, the awards were based increases in excess of the rate for the wider workforce and inflation.
targets and delivery would have otherwise been paid in on a mix of: of awards in respect of vested deferred shares Relative Total Shareholder Return Benefits will be provided in line with those offered to other employees, RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR shares rewards All awards are subject to the 50% of the award : and with national or international relocation expenses arrangements ANDEMPLOYEE PAY the achievement discretions contained in the plan rules Group adjusted earnings growth e. g. schooling, tax equalisation provided for if necessary.
of the Companys The Committee may review the targets 50% of the award The Remuneration Policy for the executive Directors is designed The aggregate incentive offered to new recruits will be no higher than strategic goals performance conditions from time In respect of each performance element, with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a whole.
that outlined in the Policy report on pages 55 and 56.
The Remuneration and increases in to time performance below the threshold target There are some differences in the structure of the Remuneration Policy Committee has flexibility to grant share awards of up to 200% of salary shareholder value The Committee has results in zero vesting.
Vesting of each for the executive Directors and other senior employees, which the upon recruitment.
Different performance measures may be set initially the discretion in certain performance element starts at the Remuneration Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different for the annual bonus and LTIP, taking into account the responsibilities circumstances to grant and 25% threshold and rises to 100% for levels of responsibility of employees across the Company and reflect of the individual, and the point in the financial year that they joined.
or settle an award in cash.
In maximum level of performance different market norms for different roles.
The key differences in practice, this will only be used Subject to clawback at the Committees remuneration policy between the executive Directors and employees Current entitlements benefits, bonus, share schemes may be bought in exceptional circumstances discretion during the period of three across the Group are the increased emphasis on performance-related out on terms that are no more favourable than a like-for-like basis for executive Directors years following the date of vesting pay and the inclusion of a share-based long-term incentive plan for with a comparable time horizon, fair value and subject to performance All-Employee Employees The Sharesave Plan has standard Employees can N A executive Directors.
Existing incentive arrangements will be used to the fullest Share including executive terms under which participants can normally elect for extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside these Executive Directors are provided with a competitive package of benefits Schemes Directors are normally enter a savings contract a three-year savings schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
In the that includes depending on role participation in the Groups occupational encouraged in return for which they are granted contract under case of an internal hire, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation pension arrangements, provision of a fully expensed car or car allowance, to become options to acquire shares at the standard terms and to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to its terms of private medical insurance, life insurance and income protection.
shareholders market value of the shares at the within HMRC limits grant adjusted as relevant to take into account the Board appointment.
through the start of the performance period The option price for The majority of Seniors managers are eligible to participate in annual operation of the The rules for this plan were first Sharesave awards can bonus arrangements with challenging targets tied to the performance RATIONALE BEHIND PERFORMANCE METRICS Sharesave Plan, approved by shareholders at the be set at a discount of their employing entity and Division.
AND TARGETS the HMRC- 2006 AGM and the updated rules of up to 20% to the The performance-related elements take into account the Companys risk Long-term incentives are provided to the most senior executives approved allwere approved at the 2016 AGM market value of the policies and systems and are designed to align the Directors interests and those anticipated as having the greatest potential to influence employee shares at the start of with those of shareholders.
Variable pay elements aim to reward performance levels within the Company.
A lower aggregate incentive share plans the savings contract, executive Directors for performance at the highest levels and, as quantum operates at below executive level with levels driven by the although no awards such, the Committee aims to set targets that are both stretching and impact of the role and market comparatives.
All targets are set on a sliding scale.
The Committee reviews 2006 Sharesave Plan In order to encourage wider employee share ownership, the Company the annual bonus measures set for all the Companys senior executives have been set at operates a Sharesave Plan in which employees in the UK, North America not only the executive Directors every year in order to ensure that they a discount and continental Europe, including executive Directors, may participate.
are aligned with the Companys strategy and annual goals and to ensure Pension Provides The executive Directors may 20% of basic salary N A that bonus arrangements amongst the Companys senior executive competitive participate in the Senior plc Group either as a Company HOW EMPLOYEES PAY IS TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT WHEN team are consistent.
retirement benefits Flexible Retirement Plan Senior contribution to Senior SETTING EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION for the Groups GFRP, a contract-based, money GFRP or as salary in The annual bonus may include a mix of financial and non-financial The Committee also reviews the salaries of corporate, divisional and employees purchase pension plan and or lieu of pension measures reflecting the key annual priorities of the Group.
The financial senior operational managers and therefore is fully cognisant of pay levels receive cash allowances metrics currently include two of the Companys KPIs: free cash in the Group when determining the pay of the executive Directors.
Bonuses are not included in flow, which is a key measure of the businesss ability to fund future calculating retirement benefits acquisitions: and Adjusted EPS, which will reflect the Groups ability In addition, the Committees policy is that salary increases for the to expand into new regions and product markets and increase the executive Directors and senior executives should not normally be Other Provides a Benefits include provision of a fully The value of benefits N A profitability of the existing operations.
If non-financial measures are greater than the general level of increases awarded to other senior benefits competitive expensed car or car allowance, is based on the cost selected, these may include reference to the Groups environmental, managers in Europe and North America, other than when an executive package of benefits private medical insurance, life to the Company and safety and organisational goals.
changes role or when it is necessary in order to ensure levels of that assists with insurance and income protection, tax is not predetermined remuneration remain market competitive.
Increases for the general recruitment and equalisation and relocation benefits There is no monetary The measures currently used in the LTIP are Adjusted EPS and relative workforce in Europe and North America for 2017 were approximately retention Any reasonable business-related cap on other benefits TSR.
Adjusted EPS is a measure of the Companys overall financial 3.4% 2016 approximately 2.4%.
expenses including tax thereon success and TSR provides an external assessment of the Companys can be reimbursed performance against its competitors.
It also aligns the rewards The Company did not consult with employees when drawing Shareholding Aligns executive Executive Directors to retain at N A N A up the Directors Remuneration Policy set out in this part of the received by executives with the returns received by shareholders.
guidelines Directors interests least 50% of the shares that vest The Committee will review the choice of performance measures and Remuneration Report.
with that of other under the LTIP and Deferred the appropriateness of the performance targets prior to each LTIP grant.
shareholders in Bonus Award, after allowing for the Company tax liabilities, until a shareholding equivalent in value to 100% of base salary is built up 56 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 57 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED POLICY ON OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Remuneration Committee believes that it is beneficial both for the individual and the Company for an executive Director to take up one external Purpose and link Performance non-executive appointment.
Fees paid for the appointment may be retained by the executive.
Element to strategy Operation Maximum assessment Non-executive Takes account of The Chairman is paid a single fee for all his responsibilities Other than when N A EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND LOSS OF OFFICE PAYMENTS Directors and recognised practice as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The nona non-executive Chairman fees and set at a level that executive Directors are paid a basic fee.
The Senior Independent Director changes The table below summarises the key provisions of each executive Directors contract: is sufficient to attract Director and the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration role or where Provision Detailed terms and retain highCommittees receive additional fees to reflect their extra benchmarking Employment contract dates David Squires 5 January 2015 calibre non-executive responsibilities indicates Derek Harding 27 March 2013 Directors fees require Notice period 12 months from both the Company and the executive Director When reviewing fee levels, account is taken of market realignment, fee Termination payment Contracts may be terminated without notice by the payment of a sum equal to the sum of salary due for the movements in non-executive Director fees, Board Committee increases will not unexpired notice period, and the value of pension contributions and other benefits such as use of company car, responsibilities, ongoing time commitments and the general normally exceed life cover and private healthcare economic environment the general level There are no provisions in the agreements, or otherwise, for additional termination payments of increases Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from for the Groups Payments may be made in monthly instalments and, in these circumstances, there is a requirement 1 January employees for the Director to mitigate loss The Chairman and non-executive Directors do not participate in Change of control There are no enhanced provisions in relation to a change of control any pension, bonus, share incentive or other share option plans The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is determined Copies of the executive Directors service contracts are available from the Group Company Secretary at the Companys Registered Office during by the Board of Directors.
The non-executive Directors do normal business hours.
The Committees policy in the event of early termination of employment is set out below.
not participate in any discussion or decisions relating to their own remuneration POLICY ON PAYMENT FOR DEPARTURE FROM OFFICE On termination of an executive Directors service contract, the Committee will take into account the departing executive Directors duty to mitigate Any reasonable business-related expenses including tax his or her loss when determining the amount of compensation.
The Committees policy in respect of the treatment of executive Directors leaving thereon can be reimbursed the Group is described below and is designed to support a smooth transition from the Company, taking into account the interests of shareholders: NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT Component Voluntary resignation Death, ill health, disability, retirement Departure on of pay or termination for cause excluding redundancy agreed terms The Chairman and non-executive Directors do not have service agreements but the terms of their appointment, including the time commitment Base salary, Paid for the proportion of Paid up to the date of death or leaving, including any untaken holidays expected, are recorded in letters of appointment.
The Chairmans appointment may be terminated on providing 12 months notice by either party.
pension and the notice period worked prorated to such date.
In the case of ill health, a payment in lieu of notice The appointments of the other non-executive Directors may be terminated by the Company or non-executive Director on providing one months benefits may be made and, according to circumstances, may be subject to notice.
Copies of the Chairmans and non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available from the Company Secretary at the Companys mitigation.
In such circumstances, some benefits such as company car Registered Office during normal business hours.
or medical insurance may be retained until the end of the notice period NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TERMS OF APPOINTMENT Annual bonus Cessation of Cessation of employment during a bonus year or after the year-end but Date Expected cash employment during a prior to the normal bonus payment date will result in cash and deferred Date original current term expiry date of Treatment will normally bonus year will normally bonus being paid and prorated for the relevant portion of Name term commenced commenced current term fall between the two result in no cash bonus the financial year worked and performance achieved Charles Berry Chairman Joined the Board March 2012 and treatments described in being paid became Chairman in April 2012 the previous columns, Annual bonus Unvested deferred In the case of the death of an executive Director, all deferred shares will Celia Baxter September 2013 September 2016 September 2019 subject to the discretion deferred share awards will lapse be transferred to the estate as soon as possible after death.
Susan Brennan January 2016 December 2018 of the Committee shares In all other cases, subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested Giles Kerr September 2013 September 2016 September 2019 and the terms of any 1 deferred shares will be transferred to the individual Mark E. Vernon April 2011 April 2017 April 2018 termination agreement on a date determined by the Committee 1 The second three-year term of appointment of Mark E. Vernon had been due to expire in April 2017.
In February 2017, the Nominations Committee agreed to extend his LTIP share Unvested LTIP share Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested LTIP share awards appointment for another 12 months, expiring in April 2018. awards awards will lapse will remain subject to the relevant performance conditions and normally be measured at the original vesting date.
The awards will normally be prorated for the relevant proportion of the performance period worked.
However, in the case of the death of an executive Director, the Committee will determine the extent of vesting within 12months of the date of death Options under As per HMRC As per HMRC regulations Sharesave regulations Other None Statutory payments and disbursements such as any legal costs and outplacement fees Notes a The Committee will have the authority to settle any legal claims against the Company e. g. for unfair dismissal etc that might arise on termination.
b There are no enhanced provisions in relation to a change of control.
58 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 59 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION HOW SHAREHOLDER VIEWS ARE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT DISCRETIONS OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE SUMMARY OF THE COMMITTEES TERMS OF REFERENCE MEMBERS The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback The Committee operates the Groups various incentive plans according The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee, available The Remuneration Committee consists entirely of non-executive Directors.
received in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where in full on the Companys website, are summarised below: Number of Number of shareholder representative bodies more generally.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the meetings meetings determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy Member during term attended were consulted in 2013 when formulating the Remuneration Policy Committee may apply certain operational discretions.
These include for the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the executive 1 Celia Baxter Chair 3 3 and in 2016 when updating the Policy.
Consultation with shareholders the following: Directors and other members of the executive management as 1 Charles Berry 3 3 was constructive and did not result in any significant changes being selecting the participants for the annual bonus plan and LTIP awards: it is designated to consider: 2 Susan Brennan 3 3 made to the Remuneration Policy.
3 determining the timing of grants and or payments: within the terms of the agreed policy and in consultation with the Andy Hamment 3 2 The Committee consults proactively with its major shareholders Chairman and or Group Chief Executive, as appropriate, determine Giles Kerr 3 3 determining the quantum of grants and or payments within the limits and intends to continue working closely with shareholders in future.
the total individual remuneration package of the Chairman, each Mark E. Vernon 3 3 set out in the policy table commencing on page 55 : executive Director, and other designated senior executives including adjusting the constituents of the TSR comparator group: 1 LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS The full Committee met three times in 2016.
In addition, authority was delegated bonuses, incentive payments and share options or other share awards: to two members of the Committee, Celia Baxter and Charles Berry, to hold three determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment For the avoidance of doubt, having received shareholder approval approve the design of, and determine targets for, any  meetings to confirm the grant and vesting of share awards.
of performance: at the 2014 AGM of this Policy Report, authority was given to the 2 Susan Brennan Appointed Independent non-executive Director on 1January2016.
related pay plans operated by the Company and approve the total 3 Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or Andy Hamment Senior Independent non-executive Director until he retired from determining good leaver status and the extent of vesting in the annual payments made under such plans: the Board on 22 April 2016. former Directors such as the payment of a pension or the unwinding case of the LTIP and deferred shares: review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board of legacy share schemes that have been disclosed to shareholders determining the extent of vesting in the case of the LTIP in the event and shareholders.
For any such plans, determine each year whether OTHER ATTENDEES AT REMUNERATION in previous remuneration reports and the recruitment arrangements of a change of control: awards will be made and, if so, the overall amount of such awards, COMMITTEE MEETINGS entered into with Derek Harding.
the individual awards to executive Directors, and other designated making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances The Group Chief Executive and Group HR Director attend meetings senior executives and the performance targets to be used: e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events, variation of capital by invitation and the Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to and special dividends : and determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for the Committee but no executive Director or other employee is present each executive Director and other designated senior executives: undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance during discussions relating to his or her own remuneration.
measures, and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and LTIP ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments from year to year.
made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not ADVISERS rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is recognised: and Before recommending proposals for Board approval, the Remuneration The Committee may vary the performance conditions to apply to LTIP oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures awards if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that Committee may seek advice from external remuneration consultants throughout the Group.
to ensure that it is fully aware of comparative external remuneration it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable practice as well as shareholder, legislative and regulatory developments.
The Committee also considers publicly available sources of information and not materially less challenging than the original conditions would have been but for the event in question.
All advisers to the Remuneration Committee are appointed and instructed by the Committee.
During the year, the Committee was advised by New Bridge Street part of Aon plc in relation to ad hoc remuneration matters, and Slaughter and May in relation to the updating of the Senior plc 2006 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme rules.
New Bridge Street and Slaughter and May have no other connection with the Company.
During 2016, the Company incurred fees of 9,446 from New Bridge Street, and 4,500 from Slaughter and May and these costs were based on a combination of hourly rates and fixed fees for specific items of work.
The Committee does not have a formal policy of subjecting its remuneration consultants to a regular fixed-term rotation, although the Committee remains cognisant of the need to achieve objective advice and good value whilst also benefiting from the consultants knowledge of the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it has received during 2016 has been objective and independent.
60 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 61 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND MATTERS ADDRESSED DURING 2016 SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION The Committee has a calendar of standard items within its remit and in addition it held in-depth discussions on specific topics during the year.
The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2016 financial year for each executive The Committee typically meets four times each year, or more as required.
The full Committee met three times in 2016.
In addition, authority was Director, together with comparative figures for 2015.
Aggregate Directors emoluments are shown at the end of the Single Total Figure of delegated to two members of the Committee, Celia Baxter and Charles Berry, to hold three additional meetings to confirm the grant and vesting Remuneration section.
The table below shows the standard items considered at each meeting, leading up to the meeting in February where the key Pension benefits decisions regarding performance, outcomes and grants for the coming year are determined.
Salaries Taxable including and benefits and Long-term cash in lieu of Standard agenda items Ad hoc items 1 2 3 4 5 fees allowances Bonus incentives pension Other Total 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s February Review of performance and outcomes under the Annual 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Bonus and Deferred Bonus Award.
Review of performance and vesting under long-term incentives.
Executives 1 David Squires 475 307 22 16 155 46 0 0 95 61 43 313 790 743 Determining incentive structure for the next Derek Harding 325 315 15 15 106 47 0 108 63 55 0 0 509 540 financial year including finalisation of targets.
March Confirmation of LTIP and Deferred Bonus Awards.
Non-executives Charles Berry May Granting of Sharesave award.
Chairman 155 151 1 2 156 153 July Review of Remuneration Policy Granting of LTIP award following appointment Celia Baxter 52 50 52 50 of Group HR Director.
6 Susan Brennan 43 1 44 September Vesting of third and final tranche of a conditional 7 Andy Hamment 16 47 16 47 share award for Derek Harding.
Giles Kerr 52 50 52 50 Review of pension policy for executives Mark E. Vernon 48 42 1 4 49 46 and senior managers.
Total remuneration 366 340 3 6 369 346 December Review and approval of Directors and senior managers Review Directors Remuneration Policy.
1 salary and total remuneration packages for the following David Squires 2015 Salaries and fees total reflects him joining part way through the year, on 1 May 2015.
2 Taxable benefits include the provision of a fully expensed company car or car allowance and private medical insurance.
The amount in respect of Mark E. Vernon, a US-based financial year.
Director, relates to the cost of travel to Board meetings in the UK.
Until April 2015, HMRC regulations required Mark E. Vernons flights to attend Board meetings to be treated Performance update on outstanding incentive and by the Company as home-to-office travel, which meant these air travel costs were treated as taxable benefits.
From April 2015, air travel was no longer deemed to be home-to bonus awards.
office travel and therefore from that date the only costs recognised in the table included accommodation and travel costs incurred within the UK.
Review of Long-Term Incentive Plan participants 3 Awards under the deferred bonus award, the Enhanced SMIS, in respect of 2016 performance will be granted in March 2017.
The deferred bonus element that is to be granted for the next financial year.
in the form of shares to David Squires and Derek Harding in March 2017 is included in the Bonus figure and will be equivalent in value to 10.85% of 2016 base salary, namely 51,538 and 35,263 respectively.
Review of the Chairmans fee.
4 The performance conditions attached to Derek Hardings 2014 LTIP Award were not achieved and no shares will vest under this award in March 2017.
The 2015 comparator figure for his 2013 LTIP Award had been omitted from the figure shown in the Annual Report and Accounts 2015.
Consequently, his 2015 total figures have been restated STATEMENT OF VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING to reflect the inclusion of this share award.
Further details on the performance conditions can be found on page 65.
5 David Squires received a Recruitment Award in 2015 which consisted of 4,770 shares with a value of 14,906 and long-term incentive awards with a face value of 287,500.
At last years AGM, held on 22 April 2016, votes on the Directors Remuneration Report were cast as follows: In addition, he received a re-location allowance of 11,212 in 2015 and 43,375 in 2016.
6 Susan Brennan was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016.
Reason for 7 Andy Hamments 2016 total reflects him leaving part way through the year, on 22 April 2016. vote against, Action taken 1 Voting For Against Total Withheld if known by Committee Remuneration Report Votes 323,794,490 4,652,261 328,446,751 10,504,741 N A N A % 98.58% 1.42% 100.0% N A 1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast For and Against a resolution.
62 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 63
