86 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Responsibility Committee This report provides details of the role of the Corporate Responsibility CR Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
Our Corporate Responsibility framework Our Corporate Responsibility framework is ambitious and underpinned by stretching targets.
It is aimed at ensuring responsible business practices in line with our strategic framework, across our whole business.
By acting in this way we support our purpose of serving our communities, building a lasting water legacy and achieve our vision to be the most trusted water company by 2020.
An underlying premise of our approach to CR is that we can add value to society by the way in which we full our role, not just by what we do.
To monitor performance against our new framework, we have an effective performance management system in place through which the performance of The Committee provides guidance on the our CR metrics are reported.
Internally, quarterly reports are provided to the Companys Corporate Responsibility CR Executive Committee and to the CR Committee.
Externally, annual reports are programme, reviews the Groups key nonpublished on our website, in our Annual Report and Accounts and through selected QDQFLDO ULVNV DQG RSSRUWXQLWLHV DQG PRQLWRUV Environmental, Social and Governance indices.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee can be found on our website Our Corporate Responsibility framework www.
com and are also available from the Company Secretary.
For part of the year, the review of the adequacy of arrangements of the Companys whistleblowing procedures fell within the remit of the CR Committee.
In October 2015 the remit of the Audit Committee was amended to include responsibility for Ambition One Ambition Two this review.
Notwithstanding this change, We will make our region the most We will play a leading role to the CR Committee continues to review all water efficient in the UK helpmake our regions rivers whistleblowing allegations at every meeting.
evenhealthier For more information please see page 88.
Gordon Fryett Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee We put our We are passionate We act Attendance at scheduled Committee meetings customers first about what we do with integrity During the year there were four scheduled meetings of the Committee.
The attendance gures for these meetings are detailed below.
Members of CR Committee Meetings attended Gordon Fryett 4 4 Andrew Duff 4 4 Liv Gareld 4 4 Dr. Angela Strank 4 4 We protect our We are inspired environment tocreate an awesomecompany Through our company values we will deliver commitments expected of a leading, sociallyresponsible company.
We also expect our suppliers to support our values.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 87 Key areas of focus for 2015 6 The Committee provides Board oversight of our CR framework, strategy and performance relating to our ambitions and essentials.
The Committee also regularly reviews reputational risks and non-financial internal audit reports, inaddition to any whistleblowing allegations.
Key areas of discussion and review during 2015 16 included the following: Our climate change adaptation report.
We have delivered significant adaptation action on the ground and have increased our understanding of the risks climate change poses to us, but we still have more to do to build our resilience, which is reected in our plans going forward.
Re-launch of our Code of Conduct Doing The Right Thing the Severn Trent Way DTRT and supporting principles and policies as an integral part of the articulation of our strategic framework, particularly our values and our CR essentials, so that they are consistent and mutually reinforcing.
An update on Managing our suppliers responsibly.
Good progress has been made to embed DTRT in our supply chain and progress regarding other aspects of managing our supply chain responsibly will be monitored by the Committee going forward.
Adoption of our CR framework by Business Services.
Wherever possible, consistent CR measures will be used, and although we cannot currently report onall measures across all regions, we will be working towards this for 2016 17.
An update on the expanded scope of our environmental management systems.
New requirements from the Environment Agency regarding environmental permit templates require an expansion of our current scope to cover combined sewer overows, pumping stations and all sewage treatment works.
Key deliverables will include an expanded training programme and assurance against compliance.
This will be monitored by the standards maintenance team going forward.
An update on focus areas for diversity.
We are focusing on recruitment of BAME applicants and women into leadership roles.
A review of external news and trends relevant to Severn Trent such as an update on the political landscape following the general election in May 2015 and Paris COP21 the United Nations conference on climate change.
Human rights We have a responsibility to understand our potential impact on human rights and to mitigate or eliminate this impact.
We are committed to operating in accordance with the United Nations Global Compact Principles and DTRT supports this commitment.
Whilst not having a specic human rights policy, we have Group policies on Human Resources, Anti Bribery and Anti Fraud, Whistleblowing and Procurement.
These policies are in turn supported by a broader range of policies within Severn Trent Water Limited and Severn Trent Business Services to support key human rights.
88 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Responsibility Committee Prevention of child labour and forced labour We will not condone the use of child labour and forced labour under any circumstances.
The highest risk for Severn Trent is through our supply chain, therefore we work with our suppliers to ensure they operate to the same standards we set ourselves.
Our Code of Conduct has been built into the procurement tender process as part of the pre-qualication questionnaire template in Severn Trent Water Limited.
Freedom of association and collective bargaining We recognise the right of all employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
We seek to promote cooperation between employees, our management team and recognised trade unions.
We meet with our trade unions on a quarterly basis at the Company forum, and see real benefit in sharing information with our colleagues and seeking their feedback and suggestions.
We believe this fosters a joint understanding of business needs and helps to deliver common solutions aimed at making our business successful.
Whistleblowing All Severn Trent employees are encouraged to raise concerns at work in the first instance through their line manager, or senior management however, we recognise that employees may feel inhibited in certain circumstances.
If this should be the case, employees are encouraged to use our condential and independent whistleblowing helpline or email service, operated by Safecall, an independent company which specialises in handling concerns at work.
The service is available internationally and Safecall provides a translation service, allowing any employee, wherever they are in the world, to access it.
Prevention and detection of bribery and corruption Our Group-wide Anti Bribery and Anti Fraud Policy prohibits bribery and corruption in all our business dealings, regardless of the country or culture within which we work.
Employees identied as high risk through a risk review for Severn Trent Water Limited and all employees of Severn Trent Business Services are required to undertake an online training module and examination to ensure awareness of and compliance with this policy.
The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of our systems and controls to detect and prevent bribery and corruption.
Responsible business practices are an integral part of our business strategy, and will be seen throughout our strategic report.
For more information about our Corporate Responsibility framework, our ambitions and values, please see our CR report on pages 54.
