54 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORA TE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 55 Building Trust Our approach to Corporate Responsibility aligns with our strategic framework.
To build trust, serve our communities and leave a lasting water legacy we must make sustainable choices and act responsibly in a way that demonstrates our values.
Gordon Fryett Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Our Corporate Responsibility framework Our purpose Our vision To serve our communities and To be the most trusted water build a lasting water legacy company by 2020 Underpinned by our Corporate Responsibility Commitment By adopting responsible business practices and making sustainable choices we will be able to meet our purpose and full our business strategy.
Our ambitions The nature of what we do means that we have an important role to play in protecting water as a precious resource and the wider environment.
We have identied two stretching ambitions which will help us to achieve both our vision and purpose.
Ambition One Ambition Two We will make our region the most We will play a leading role to help make water efficient in the UK our regions rivers even healthier Our values Through our company values we will deliver commitments expected of a leading, sociallyresponsible company.
We also expect our suppliers to support our values.
We put our We are passionate We act We protect our We are inspired customers first about what we do with integrity environment tocreate an awesomecompany Benchmark Benchmark 56 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Responsibility report Our responsible commitments and our performance against them Our Corporate Responsibility framework is centred around the issues that are most important to our customers and the most material issues underpinning our performance as a sustainable business.
7KHVH KDYH EHHQ LGHQWLHG WKURXJK H[WHQVLYH VWDNHKROGHU FRQVXOWDWLRQV XQGHUWDNHQ WKURXJKRXW 35 WR GHYHORS RXU 2', V :H KDYH WZR DPELWLRQV ZKLFK ZH ZDQW WR H[FHO LQ DQG RXU FRPSDQ YDOXHV provide key areas of focus.
Each commitment has tough measures associated with it and are subject to a rigorous ongoing review to ensure they remain appropriately challenging.
We will continue to develop our metrics where required.
Objective Our commitment How we are measuring 15 16 This years 2015 16 2020 ourperformance RAG performance target target We will provide 1,000 of our business Number of efficiency interventions we have 54 50 1,000 customers with water efficiency carried outfor our business customers, devicesandpersonal advice, working includingaudits, educational sessions with ourwholesale suppliers to andbespokeadvice Ambition One: reduceconsumption Wewill make our We will empower our customers to Water efficiency level achieved 4.32Ml d 5MI d 25MI d region the most saveupto25Ml d by 2020 water efficient We will improve understanding of Number of customers we have educated 117,728 155,000 700,000 intheUK ourservicesthrough education from 2015 to 2020 cumulative over AMP6 We will work with landowners and partner Positive engagement with land managers 4% 4% 80% organisations to reduce agricultural run-off in intargeted areas by end of AMP6 ourregions rivers We will do our fair share to achieve Water Number of Water Framework Directive 0 0 233 Ambition Two: Framework Directive good ecological classication improvement points as cumulative Wewill play a statusinour regions failing water bodies, monitored by the Environment Agency over AMP6 leading role to where it is cost-effective todoso helpmake our We will improve biodiversity in our region Number of hectares improved from 00 75 regions rivers by improving at least 75hectares of Sites unfavourableor deteriorating condition evenhealthier ofSpecial scientific Interest SSSI using Natural Englands database of SSSIs We provide a service to our customers that is % of customers who rate our service 57.5% 57% 55% goodvalue formoney valuefor money in an independent quarterlysurvey We help our customers who are in genuine Number of customers we help 24,110 35,000 50,000 We put our need and struggling to pay their bills each year throughsocial tariffs customers first andassistanceschemes Our employees are passionate about what Group % engagement score from our 52% 50% we do annualemployeesurvey We are passionate about what we do We involve our customers in our plans, We will invite the independent Water 4 Water Forum andwerehonest about how they think Forumtoreview and comment on our meetings held weredoing annualperformance this year We act with integrity We do everything we can to prevent polluting Number of Environment Agency Category 2 8 0 the environment 1& 2 incidents Calendar year metric We reduce our carbon footprint % reduction in Group carbon emissions 8% 4% 19% We protect our scope 1 and 2 environment Our colleagues and community are not STW LTI rate 0.25 0.18 hurtormade unwell by the work we do Business Services LTI rate 0.17 We believe a diverse and inclusive workforce STW Total workforce % Female 30.3% 30% We are inspired is a key factor in being a successful business Group Total workforce % Female 28.95% tocreate an awesome company STW Total workforce % BAME 7.64% 6.0% Group Total workforce % BAME 13.86% We are a responsible payer % invoices paid on time 12 month 96.4% 95% 95% nancialyear average Our suppliers support our values Global benchmark from Aon Hewitt On track Slightly off track Off track Business in the community industry benchmark 2014 Against target Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 57 Our ambitions Ambition One: We will make our region the most In order to achieve our vision of being water efficient in the UK the most trusted water company by 2020, we will demonstrate We aim to do this through providing environmental leadership wherever advice, equipment and education.
The nature of what we do means that we have an We will empower our customers to save up to 25Ml d by 2020 important role to play in protecting We know water efficiency is important to our customers and we are committed and sustaining water as a natural to helping them to become more water efficient and have set ourselves an ambitious target to help them save 25 mega litres per day Ml d by 2020. resource and the environment as a Through helping our customers and by continuing to reduce leakage we want to whole.
We take water from rivers make our region the most water efficient in the UK.
and aquifers, transport it over large We will provide 1,000 of our business customers with distances to our customers, and water efficiency devices and personal advice, working with return treated waste water to rivers our wholesale suppliers to reduce consumption in our region.
In the future, our ability As part of our standard service to our key corporate customers, we engage with to achieve this will be challenged them on water efficiency discussions and also conduct site audits to help them manage their water consumption and costs.
In 2015 16 we provided this advice by matters such as maintaining the to 20 of our key corporate customers and conducted 54 site audits, including resilience of our supplies, ensuring ASDA, Next and several large universities, and completed 280 water efficiency we continue to source water audits with smaller businesses in Nottingham.
In addition to this, we are working sustainably, meeting tightening to provide third party consultancy, at no cost to customers, in key parts of our environmental standards, coping region.
This is a joint engagement between our wholesale and retail teams.
We are developing a segmented customer approach to engagement depending ZLWK H[WUHPH ZHDWKHU DQG PHHWLQJ on their size and water efficiency needs.
WKH GHPDQG IURP WKH DGGLWLRQDO We will improve understanding of our services through education PLOOLRQ SHRSOH H[SHFWHG WR EH OLYLQJ Our customers told us they want to better understand what we do.
This year we LQ RXU UHJLRQ RYHU WKH QH[W HDUV set up our new Community Relationship Team who are focused on delivering We are committed to meeting these two key messages: the importance of water efficiency, and ensuring our drains challenges, which form the basis of remain clean and blockage free.
This work is really important in protecting our two ambitions, and will help us to our environment and our customers from pollutants and external and internal ooding.
In 2015 16, through a number of partnerships including local achieve our vision and purpose as set universities and City Councils, we have been able to educate 117,728 customers, out in this report.
a number which we anticipate will increase substantially.
These partnerships are mutually beneficial: preventing blockages proactively in both our customers networks and ours.
Through education and training packages on water efficiency we also enable customers with the potential to reduce their water usage and therefore water bills.
Water efficiency achieved this year New water efficiency home check programme This year we launched our new water efficiency 4.32 Ml d home check programme, starting in the Rugby area.
Customers in and around the area can sign up for a free home check, where Severn Trent contractors, PN Daly, visit the customers home Customers educated and t free water saving devices, offer advice on how they can save water and check for simple leaks.
This free service will help customers save water, energy and money.
So far weve completed 117,728 5,590 home checks and we aim to deliver more in 2015 16 inthe future.
58 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Responsibility report Ambition Two: We will play a leading role to help make our regions rivers even healthier We aim to achieve this through working with Farmers engaged with since Agricultural landowners and partner organisations, achieving good Advisers in place October 2015 ecological status and improving biodiversity.
We will work with landowners and partner organisations to reduce 762 agricultural run-off into our regions rivers Partnerships such as those with Wye & Usk Foundation, Trent Rivers Trust, Severn Rivers Trust, Catchment Sensitive Farming and Nottinghamshire Wildlife Trust have been key to helping us deliver our AMP6 catchment ambitions.
Through these WatersideCare partnerships we are reducing agricultural run-off, such as pesticides getting Working with our project partners Keep into the water and polluting it, therefore improving river water quality, reducing Britain Tidy, the Environment Agency and treatment costs and improving the river environment as a whole.
Our catchment the Canal and River Trust, we are proud to team, alongside a range of moorland partners, have been successful in securing be supporting the WatersideCare volunteers 16 million of EU support to deliver our targets in the Bamford catchment.
to breathe new life into their local rivers and Newly recruited agricultural advisers will play a vital role in engaging with canals.
There are over 50 community groups farmers across 27 catchments, which is a core part of our catchment in the Midlands who work hard to improve scheme delivery.
The team have received a pleasing number of Severn Trent their local environment by clearing litter Environmental Protection Scheme STEPS applications during their first from river stretches, increasing awareness farmer grant applicant window.
The work is aimed at improving water quality of the effects of pollution, managing invasive in our catchments.
Applicants have ranged from improved pesticide handling species and monitoring their local aquatic facilities to rainwater harvesting equipment.
STEPS grants will be available to environment.
Atthe end of the fifth year of the partnership, they have cleared 7,606 farmers in priority catchments annually until 2020.
In 2016 17 we will continue to bags of litter, removed 1,130 bulky items focus on farmer engagement specically in groundwater catchments, setting up from waterways, reported 48 suspected and running Farmers as Producers of Clean Water and metaldehyde product misconnections and 15 environmental substitution schemes in our surface water catchments.
crimes, giving an impressive 30,481 hours We will do our fair share to achieve Water Framework Directive oftheir time to their local waterways.
WFD good ecological status in our regions failing water bodies, where it is cost-effective to do so In AMP6 we will be delivering our largest ever environmental improvement programme, spending over 300 million to deliver improvements to rivers throughout our region, a programme which is supported by our customers whowanted to see us do more to improve river water quality.
Our investment programme seeks to contribute our fair share of the improvements needed to get targeted river lengths within our region to good ecological status, to support the WFD objective to get all water bodies lakes, rivers etc to this status.
The majority of improvements are targeted at sewage treatment works to produce a higher quality efuent, which will in turn help improve river water quality.
This investment will deliver new or improved assets Innovation in integrated onsite and involve complex capital schemes.
We have worked closely with the watermanagement Environment Agency in order to optimise the environmental benets of our In Tyseley, Birmingham, were leading on the programme.
We are also reducing abstractions by 85Ml d from sources that creation of a community scale, model site, areno longer environmentally sustainable.
to demonstrate the practicality and societal We will improve biodiversity in our region by improving at least 75 benets of integrated water management.
hectares of Sites of Special scientific Interest SSSIs Working with the community and a range of Planning has been our primary focus this year to date, identifying all 11 SSSIs and partners we are trialling a number of innovative Special Areas of Conservation that Severn Trent will be improving over AMP6, measures including new water efficiency allocating specific projects to be undertaken to either improve or stop deterioration products and rain water harvesting for toilet at each site and setting up monitoring processes.
We have been working closely ushing to reduce water consumption and our customers bills.
The outcomes will inuence our with Natural England to determine a methodology for capturing improved investment elsewhere to ultimately benefit all biodiversity and clarifying the details of our performance commitment, with the our customers.
support of our customer challenge group, the Water Forum.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 59 We help our customers who are in genuine Number of customers need and struggling to pay their bills weve helped this year We work hard to ensure our bills are affordable, but we understand that some customers We put our customers first may need additional assistance.
We can help customers through a review of their account and 24,110 Customers are at the heart of all we do and support through one of our affordability schemes this means putting them first.
We invest time to such as metering, Watersure and our new social listen to our customers.
We work hard to design tariff, the Big Difference Scheme.
We launched an experience they expect and translate it into the Big Difference Scheme, in April 2015, which our business plans.
We put our customers and offers between a 10% and 90% reduction to the communities first, aim to provide a service that average bills.
is value for money, help our customers who Number of customers In 2015 16, we assisted 24,110 customers.
struggle to pay their bills and to make a positive weaim to help each Our target was 35,000, however, in the early part difference through volunteering.
of the year application volumes were lower than yearduring AMP6 We put our customers and communities expected, due in part to challenges engaging first when carrying out our work with the customers who need our support.
We recognise that planned and unplanned We also believe that the perceived social stigma 50,000 work on our networks can cause disruption.
associated with seeking financial support may be In February 2015 we launched Customers affecting applications.
We have new engagement and Communities First, our guide to help our plans in place for 2016 17 and are determined colleagues and one of our supply chain partners to support more of our customers who need it deliver a great customer experience every time the most.
they carry out planned work.
It explains what Severn Trent Trust Fund provides assistance we need to do and who we need to engage tothose in the most financial difficulty.
with before work begins, during and after our For more information on the support we offer work is complete.
We seek feedback from our our customers, see page 30. customers at the end of every scheme to ensure we successfully learn from experiences, sharing Our people make a positive difference in areas for improvement and best practice.
the community through volunteering In February 2016, we launched our programme We provide a service to our customers of activity Love Our Network, focusing on that is good value for money volunteering, education and network vigilance Our customers pay the lowest combined water under the headings of Love to Care, Love to and waste water bills in the UK, and will continue Share and Always Aware.
We have worked to do so in AMP6.
However, our research shows with our employees and our newly established that customers want more than just low bills, employee community panels, to steer our they expect us to make a positive difference approach to volunteering throughout the especially when it comes to our investments and business.
Following a vote by our employees, the environment.
Operating efficiently, we are wesupport two charities: continuing our support able to do both of these things and provide good with WaterAid and a new partnership with value for money to customers.
In an independent Make-A-Wish Foundation.
In addition to this, quarterly study of our customer base, 57.5% of we will support national set piece fundraising our customers consider us good or very good events, and local teams will be able to select the value for money.
causes they wish to raise funds for, volunteer or do team building activities for.
All employees have two days paid volunteering leave available to them per annum.
We encourage volunteering in support of our two CR ambitions around water efficiency and healthier rivers and ensure that all volunteering activities are conducted in a safe manner.
60 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Responsibility report We make a constructive contribution to developing sustainable and resilient water and waste water services We will publish our consultation responses We act with integrity on our website.
We report annually on the initiatives we have taken to contribute.
Being trusted means always doing the right thing for our customers, communities, investors, We have been at the forefront of contributing to regulators and colleagues.
This means that we the Governments policy debate regarding the will never tolerate fraud, bribery or corruption long term structure and regulation of the water and that we only ever work with suppliers and industry.
In our two most recent publications, partners who care about this as much as we do.
Changing Course and Charting a Sustainable Course, we have developed and published Our employees are not afraid to ideas ranging from customer empowerment, stand up for whats right affordability, resilience, ooding and drainage, We believe it is important that employees feel sustaining the environment and the role of able to speak up and are confident they can competition and markets.
raise issues and concerns, whatever the nature.
We are committed to working with all key Openness and transparency are both key to this, stakeholders to ensure that we promote a and form part of how we want to do business.
constructive and engaging debate about the Sometimes, however, that isnt enough, and future of the water sector.
Responding to this is where our Whistleblowing Policy comes public consultations is a key component of this into play.
The process is easily accessed, widely debate and it is essential that we use these communicated and acted upon.
opportunities to share our views and to seek We involve our customers in our plans, to shape the outcome.
We also believe that it is and were honest about how they think imperative that our customers can see what we were doing are saying and how we are working to safeguard these essential services for today and tomorrow.
We will invite the independent Water We achieve this by publishing our responses to Forum to review and comment on our consultations on our website so that customers annual performance.
can read and understand the issues that The Water Forum is an independently chaired, affect them.
multi-stakeholder group that has a continuing role to challenge whether we are delivering our commitments to our customers, and how we Performance management communicate that performance.
Over the past year the key areas of focus have been how we based on behaviours measure and share our AMP6 performance Our employees live our values and the development of our assurance plan and Ensuring our employees Do the Right risk statement.
In both areas the Water Forum Thing and act with integrity forms a crucial were invited to challenge our proposals and the part of our performance management insight they provided shaped our final approach.
framework which is called Inspiring To gain greater understanding of our customers, Great Performance, with behaviours Water Forum members were invited to attend making up 50% of our performance rating.
customer research focus groups undertaken Inspiring Great Performance details our as part of the non-household retail tariff review behaviour models and the behaviours you programme.
This will enable members to need to be a great colleague within Severn comment on the outputs of our research that Trent.
We truly want everyone to bethe best will form part of our submission to Ofwat in July they can beand to reach their full potential and Inspiring Great Performance is at the 2016.
We are developing a new performance heart of helping everyone to dojust this.
report that is aimed towards our household customers and will share our performance in a clear and accessible format.
This is the first year it will be published and we will work to develop it throughout the AMP.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 61 We reduce our carbon footprint We are reducing our carbon emissions year on year, primarily by being more energy efficient andgenerating more renewable energy.
Weveseen a consistent reduction since 2002 when we began publicly reporting on our greenhouse We protect our environment gas emissions.
Acting responsibly and sensitively towards the Severn Trent Water Carbon Emissions 800 environment and taking environmental issues 700 seriously is key to how we are judged as a 600 company and as an industry.
Our environmental 500 responsibilities extend far beyond the 400 treatment of water and waste water to keep 300 our rivers clean.
We aim to play a leading role 200 in promoting water as a vital resource, mitigate 100 our environmental impact and to work with 0 suppliers and partners to achieve this.
It is also important that we engage constructively with Key regulators and other stakeholders to ensure a Early Reporting ODI Target Combined W&WW uses 2013 grid factor ODI Measure Combined W&WW uses 2013 grid factor Industry-agreed methodology latest Defra factors each year sustainable water industry.
In our CR report, Source: Annual regulatory returns data subject to external assurance each year.
wefocus on preventing pollutions and reducing our carbon footprint.
We have held the Carbon Trust Standard since Reduction in Group We do everything we can to prevent 2009 in recognition of consistent emission carbon emissions polluting the environment reductions and effective carbon management since2014 15 Cleaning waste water means that we have to processes.
Our performance against the standard deal with unpleasant or dangerous substances is in the top 15% of all organisations.
We have that, if discharged to a watercourse untreated, seen a year on yearimprovement in our Carbon could cause a serious pollution event.
In 2015 we Disclosure Project CDP score.
CDP request 8% had two serious pollutions.
This is a significant information about climate change from companies improvement on our 2014 performance each year on behalf of investors and score each where there were eight serious pollutions.
company on the quality and completeness of CLIMATE DISCLOSURE LEADER 2015 This reduction has been achieved through their responses.
This year we were recognised continued investment in high risk assets, in the carbon disclosure leadership index improving our operational processes and forthe first time 99 100, for demonstrating a investigating third party sources of pollution considerable improvement fromour previous entering our network.
Our highest risk of CDP submission 2014:85 100.
This is largely pollution continues to be sewer blockages, duetoour updated climatechange risk assessment resulting in sewage entering watercourses.
In 2016, we will be installing over 500 monitors at high risk locations to detect the formation of blockages, in order to proactively resolve the issue before a pollution is caused.
Our goal is to have zero serious pollutions Environment Journey towards Agency Category 1 or 2 by 2019. sustainabletransport We have been awarded a provisional We own a eet of approximately 2,700 vehicles environmental performance rating of 4 and in October 2015 we tendered for new by the Environment Agency.
vehicles that are industry leading on CO 2 emissions and fuel efficiency.
We measure the weekly statistics from these vehicles including CO, miles driven, fuel used and empty miles.
2 In 2012 13 we also purchased three Euromec electric vehicles for ground maintenance, which we will continue topurchase through AMP6.
2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 kt CO e 2 62 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Responsibility report Climate change adaptation Future Proong This year we conducted a thorough analysis of the risks that climate change poses to us and our adaptation actions.
The main risks posed by climate change are: increased pressure on our water resources and the higher costsassociated with meeting our customers needs: higher levels of rainfall mean run-off exceeds the capacity of oursewer systems and our storage capacity: and decrease in raw water quality as a result of run-off from elds carryingpollutants such as pesticides.
To deal with these risks, we are investing to improve our resilience, including 300 million in a scheme to provide an alternative water supply to Birmingham.
This allows us to carry out vital improvement work to the robust but ageing Victorian aqueduct that brings the citys supplies from mid-Wales.
Liv Gareld, Severn Trent Chief Executive, said: Were looking forward todelivering our plans for 2015 to 2020.
Climate change presents abigchallenge to us, yet it is a challenge that we can respond positively to.
The full report, which details the actions taken to adapt to climate change and to improve resilience, is available at: www.
During the year, we increased renewable Severn Trent Plc Direct Operational Greenhouse 2015 16 2014 15 2013 14 energy generation from food waste, energy Gas Emissions tonnes CO2e GHG crop, sewage sludge, wind and solar power.
Emissions from combustion of fuel and 156,979 169,211 169,844 Generating an equivalent of 33% of Severn operation of facilities Scope 1 Trent Water Limiteds electricity needs, we Emissions from electricity purchased 337,028 357,756 330,679 continue to lead the UK water industry, with an for own use Scope 2 aim of building on this position by generating the equivalent of 50% of our electricity needs by Total Annual Gross Operational Emissions 494,008 526,968 500,523 2020.
For more information see our Business Emissions benefit of the renewable energy 45,085 38,878 21,672 Services performance review on pages 36 to 40. we export including biomethane exported Over the long term we aim to reduce our carbon for which we hold green gas certicates emissions and increase our renewable energy Total Annual Net Operational Emissions 448,923 488,090 478,851 generation.
We plan to continue to reduce our emissions within Severn Trent Water Limited by Annual GHG intensity ratio t CO unit 2015 16 2014 15 2013 14 2 a further 5% between 2015 and 2020, primarily by reducing our energy use and to continue Operational GHG emissions of Severn Trent 270.7 276.0 269.6 per m turnover to increase our renewable energy generation mainly within Business Services.
Pursuing these measures will continue to reduce our key The GHG data we report is reported internally during the year to the Corporate Responsibility Committee and to the Board.
We have subjected our GHG data and processes to external assurance by Jacobs.
sources of emissions, reduce our reliance on Our approach to reporting is based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard theelectricity grid and bring financial benets and we have included only emissions from the assets which we own and operate and which we can forour customers and investors.
directly inuence and reduce, known as the financial control boundary.
In accordance with the reporting regulations, we have not reported on emissions we can inuence, but which we are not responsible for, referred to as indirect emissions.
Our GHG emissions are reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO2e, the year ended 31 March 2016.
For Severn Trent Water Limited, we have calculated our emissions using the Carbon accounting in the UK Water Industry: methodology for estimating operational emissions, Version 10 released April 2016.
This is a peer-reviewed calculation tool developed and used by all the major water companies in the UK.
It is updated each year to include the latest available emissions factors.
For Severn Trent Services, we have used the latest Defra emissions factors which include the relevant conversion factors for overseas electricity.
For continuity, we have used the same global warming potential values throughout the three years of our reporting in this Annual Report and Accounts.
Severn Trent Water Limited accounts for 98% of our total Group emissions Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 63 We are investing in the wellbeing of our KDV VHHQ XV colleagues to help them provide the best visit a busy schedule service they can of school career This year we launched our first ever Wellbeing We are inspired to create Programme, focussing our efforts on mental events, raising health.
The programme has received really anawesome company awareness of our positive engagement and we have seen a career opportunities steady decline in absence due to mental health.
Our people are essential to achieving success.
and providing For more information, please see our case study We aim to create an awesome place to work employability support on page 25. for our employees in part by looking after their across our region.
health, safety and wellbeing and encouraging We believe a diverse and inclusive diversity and inclusiveness.
workforce is a key factor in being a successful business Our colleagues and community are not As a customer focused organisation, we need hurt or made unwell by the work we do our workforce to reect the customers and Our vision for health, safety and wellbeing is that communities we serve to ensure we understand no one gets hurt or is made unwell by what we and can respond to their needs.
We are working with the business to develop a road map to Goal Zero to set out exactly what We have prioritised three key areas: women in we need to do to achieve our vision between now operational leadership positions, women and and 2017.
A major focus this year has been on BAME Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic people compliance with our health, safety and wellbeing in engineering positions and BAME people in HSW standards and developing action plans technical operator positions.
This year we have to drive further improvements.
This activity is worked to ensure that our workplace is not complemented by regular Thinking Out Loud only diverse but that it also inclusive and our campaigns, where our people submit their ideas colleagues feel that they can be themselves at on how to encourage everyone to follow our HSW work, for example recognising major faith days.
standards, every time and every day.
We also We continue to work with Business Disability seek to ensure that members of the public are Forum to support disability at work.
not injured as a result of our work.
The Love Our Our approach to diversity and inclusion has Network app was launched as a trial in January DIGITAL FIRST seen a steady development in recent years, 2015, facilitating easy reporting of network issues as evidenced with a silver classication from and therefore protecting our communities from Visit our online annual Business in the Community BITC following its slips, trips and falls.
report to nd out more: 2015 diversity survey.
com We are committed to improving the sustainability and resilience of our supply chain, which will form an area of focus going forward.
2016 17 will Our suppliers support see further developments and initiatives focusing on collaborative working with our suppliers, our values to identify and manage both environmental and social elements we could improve in We want our supply chain to both live by and line with our core values and Corporate reect our values and as such require all Responsibility framework.
suppliers to sign up to Doing The Right Thing our Code of Conduct.
Its also important to us that we are a responsible payer, and thats why throughout 2015 16 we The strategic report, as set out from the inside front cover through to page 63, have worked hard to improve our payment hasbeen approved by the Board.
to terms, part of which has involved bringing By order of the Board more suppliers onto self-bill to ensure a quicker procure to pay process.
This year we paid 96.4% of our invoices on time.
Bronagh Kennedy Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 23 May 2016 64 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance 65 Chairmans letter 66 Board of Directors 68 Executive Committee 69 Governance report 79 Nominations Committee 82 Audit Committee 86 Corporate Responsibility Committee 89 Remuneration Committee 102 Directors report 106 Directors Responsibilities Statement
