Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 55 ICAAP, ILAAP and stress testing Recovery plan and resolution pack The ICAAP, ILAAP and associated stress testing exercises represent The Group has prepared and submitted a Recovery Plan and important elements of the Groups ongoing risk management Resolution Pack RP&RP in accordance with Prudential Regulatory processes.
The results of the risk assessment contained in these Authority PRA Supervisory Statements SS18 13 and SS19 13 and documents is embedded in the strategic planning process and risk submitted it to the PRA following Board approval.
appetite to ensure that sufficient capital and liquidity are available to support the Groups growth plans as well as to cover its regulatory The plan represents the Groups Living Will and examines in detail: requirements at all times and under varying circumstances.
the consequences of severe levels of stress i. e. beyond those in the ICAAP impacting the Group at a future date: The ICAAP and ILAAP are reviewed at least annually, and more often the state of preparedness and contingency plan to respond in the event of a material change in capital or liquidity.
Ongoing to and manage through such a set of circumstances: and stress testing and scenario analysis outputs are used to inform the the options available to management to withstand and recover formal assessments and determination of required buffers, the from such an environment.
strategy and planning for capital and liquidity management, and the setting of risk appetite limits.
This plan is prepared annually, or more frequently in the event of a material change in the Groups status, capital or liquidity position.
The Board and senior management have engaged in a number The Board of Directors and senior management are fully engaged in of exercises which have considered and developed stress-test considering the scenarios and options available for remedial actions scenarios.
The output analysis enables management to evaluate to be undertaken.
the Groups capital and funding resilience in the face of severe but plausible risk shocks.
In addition to the UK variant test on capital The Board considers that the Groups public status, its business prescribed by the Regulator, the stress tests have included a model and the diversified nature of its business markets provide range of Group-wide, multi-risk category stress tests, generic and it with the flexibility to consider selective business or portfolio idiosyncratic financial shocks, and operational risk scenario analyses.
disposals, loan book run-off, equity-raising or a combination of these Stress testing is an integral part of the adequacy assessment actions.
The Group would invoke the Recovery Plan and Resolution processes for liquidity and capital, and the setting of tolerances Pack if required.
under the annual review of Group risk appetite.
The Group also performed reverse stress tests to help management understand the full continuum of adverse impact and therefore the level of stress at which the Group would breach its individual capital and liquidity guidance requirements as set by the Regulator under the ICAAP and ILAAP processes.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 56 Risk management report continued The Group is not large enough to participate in the annual Bank of Group Viability Statement England concurrent stress testing programme but has, as part of The Directors have assessed the outlook for the Group over its ICAAP, performed a variety of equivalent stress tests and reverse a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going stress tests of its business.
These include two market-wide stress Concern statement in accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate tests and two Group-specific idiosyncratic stress tests.
tests were derived through discussions with senior management and the Board, after considering the Groups principal risks.
The The assessment relied on: Group also considered its funding and liquidity adequacy in the context of the reverse stress testing.
The risk of the UK leaving the Board-approved Strategic Update presented to the capital the EU had been considered and the Board believes this risk was markets in May 2016 and the 2017 Budget that outlines the captured within its stress testing scenarios.
The Board expects Groups business plans and financial projections: there to be a period of uncertainty following the UK Government the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP : triggering Article 50 and will keep this under review.
the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP : a review and evaluation of the Groups top and emerging The stress tests enable the Group to assess the impact of a number risks as reported upon earlier in this section : of severe but plausible scenarios on its business model.
In the case consideration of the effect of a moving regulatory landscape of reverse stress testing, the Board is able to assess scenarios and on the Pillar 2A, Pillar 2B and the CRD IV Combined Buffer circumstances that would render its business model unviable, requirements, together with the effect of the Groups Capital thereby identifying business vulnerabilities and ensuring the Contingency Plan to restore the capital position in scenarios development of early warning indicators and potential mitigating of capital headwinds: actions.
the assumption that the Group has ongoing access, if required, to the debt capital markets as we consider the optimal capital The Board aims to build a sustainable lending and savings bank composition of the Group: and for SMEs and consumers over the medium to long term.
The Board the effect of the implementation of the IFRS 9 Financial monitors a five year Strategic Plan that provides a robust planning Instruments, taking into account the phase-in arrangements tool against which strategic decisions are made.
Whilst the Board proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.
has no reason to believe that the Group will not be viable for a five year period, given the inherent uncertainty involved, the Board concluded that a three year period is an appropriate length of time to perform a viability assessment with a greater level of certainty.
Based on the results of the above mentioned assessments, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a period of at least three years.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 57 Corporate social responsibility During 2016 Shawbrook developed Our approach to CSR its corporate social responsibility CSR programme to better reflect how we Environment operate as a company and how we Shawbrook is dedicated to responsible position ourselves in the communities business through its financial activities, we operate in.
We recognise the by protecting the environment in which we operate and working sustainably.
importance of social responsibility and are committed to maintaining Read more about our 58 Environment the highest standards and conducting business in a responsible way.
Marketplace Shawbrook is committed to maintaining high ethical standards, adhering to laws and regulations, conducting business in a Our traditional values and culture of responsible way and treating all stakeholders with honesty and respect, care, good sense and thoughtful integrity.
These principles are reflected in our culture throughout judgement underpin our approach the organisation and are adhered to by our employees.
to working with our supply chain.
The Shawbrook approach to CSR addresses both how we deal Read more about our 59 with our employees and our customers, and how we manage Marketplace our ethical and environmental responsibilities.
Our approach to CSR and sustainability focuses on four main stakeholder areas: Environment: Workplace Marketplace: Workplace: and We pride ourselves in being a bank that Community.
is specialist in good sense: however, this can only be achieved if we embed this philosophy with our people.
Read more about our 60 Workplace Community At Shawbrook we are committed to supporting local causes that are close to the hearts of our employees and the communities in which we work, aspiring to make a difference.
Read more about our 62 Community Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 58 Corporate social responsibility continued Using the internationally recognised Greenhouse Gas framework, Environment we have calculated the GHG emissions associated with our Scope 1 Shawbrook is dedicated to responsible business through its financial and 2 operations using DEFRA Environmental Reporting Guidelines activities, by protecting the environment in which we operate conversion factors.
Scope 1 includes fuel emissions from buildings and working sustainably.
We are committed to creating a strong and company vehicles, and Scope 2 includes our emissions from business that is not achieved at the expense of the environment.
Our Environmental Management defines responsibilities and Change 2015 processes in relation to waste, energy, water and travel at our offices 2016 2015 to 2016 % across the UK.
Our head office is also ISO 14001 compliant.
Smart meter technology is installed across the business and we are able to Total Scope 1 track the individual performance of our properties.
This allows us to CO e emissions t 49.5 61.5 19.5 2 monitor ongoing consumption profiles, and alter plant operational Scope 2 times in line with the requirements of each property, reducing C0 e emissions t 2 energy wastage.
We are pleased with our 2016 results but realise this Brentwood 284.7 268.1 6.2 is a journey requiring continual improvement, and have committed to reducing energy consumption in 2017 and beyond across the Croydon 57.5 95.8 40.0 estate and to increasing the recycling of paper, plastic, aluminium Dorking 86.7 88.7 2.3 and general waste produced at our offices.
Glasgow 47.9 47.7 0.4 Greenhouse Gas emissions: The main greenhouse gas GHG London 24.6 n a n a generated as a result of running our business is carbon dioxide, Wisbech n a 21.3 n a generated from our use of fuels in heating, cooling and lighting Total Scope 2 our offices, and through business travel.
We are committed to CO e emissions t 501.4 521.6 3.9 2 reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
Total Scope 1 & Scope 2 We have measured our GHG footprint since 2014 and have set CO e emissions tonnes 550.9 583.1 5.5 2 ourselves a target of reducing this figure by 20% by 2020, reflecting Total emissions per FTE t 1.0 1.1 9.1 our continued efforts to reduce energy consumption and improve efficiency overall.
Transport: Measures to reduce the impact of transportation across the business, for both commuting and business travel, has been a focus throughout 2016.
Promotion of teleand videoconferencing facilities has helped improve take-up of these facilities as an alternative to travel.
The Group also provides a shuttle bus covering various nearby locations for employees at its head office in Brentwood, thereby reducing the use of personal vehicles.
Total Scope 1 CO e emissions 2 Change between 2015 to 2016 % -19.5 2016: 49.5 t, 2015: 61.5 t Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 59 Marketplace Smiles and Memories SAM Fund: Our traditional values and culture of respect, care, good sense and thoughtful judgement underpin our approach to working with our supply chain.
We recognise the importance of collaborative The SAM Fund is a small Essex-based relationships when doing business and Shawbrook strives to work with suppliers who subscribe to, operate on and promote charity that was initially set up to similar principles.
provide children with life-limiting We take seriously our responsibilities to customers, employees, illnesses and disabilities and their shareholders, business partners and to the local community.
families the opportunity to We conduct all business relationships with respect, honesty and integrity, and we promote equitable working relationships experience cherished memories in throughout the supply chain.
The Funds Shawbrook relies on an extensive number of external suppliers not for profit status means that every and expects all suppliers and staff to behave, and to be seen to behave, ethically at all times during the sourcing and supply of single penny it raises goes towards goods and services.
In 2017, we will further review our supply the provision of help.
chain management and request that our suppliers report their GHG emissions to us, allowing us to collectively monitor and meet Over the past couple of years the Fund, whilst still shared environmental goal.
concentrating on cherished memories, has also expanded the help it provides by purchasing specialist equipment: for example, state-of-the-art computer equipment and specialist disability programs for the special needs department of a local primary school, and a series of books called All About Me which have been given to severely disabled children who had no previous means of communication.
Shawbrooks donations have helped to provide equipment and create happy and lasting memories.
I have a variety of reasons for getting involved with SAM, not least the fact that I have seen the result of the vital work they do having seen a child of one of my close friends benefit from help provided.
Stephen Connelly Change Programme Manager Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 60 Corporate social responsibility continued Training and development: We have devoted considerable efforts Workplace to ensuring that all colleagues are supported in their training We pride ourselves in being a bank that is specialist in good sense: requirements, enabling them to be the best they can be.
In 2016 however, this can only be achieved if we embed this philosophy we invested over 635,000 in employee learning and development.
The key to this is having a workplace that provides This included both internal training and external qualifications, excellent opportunities for career progression and that encourages all with the aim of educating and improving our talent.
The Shawbrook Learning Bank, launched in March 2016, also plays We work hard to create a business where we can attract and retain a significant part in our training programme and acts as a goto talented, customer-focused people who can do their best work tool for all training needs and records.
The Learning Bank includes and grow fulfilling careers.
both face-to-face and eLearning modules, allowing for individual and independent development.
Each staff member is encouraged We aim to attract and reward the most talented and dedicated to complete a minimum of 35 hours continuing professional individuals with first-class development and training programmes, development per year.
in a workplace that encourages ambition, with a vision of providing first-class customer service.
In 2016 we commenced our relationship Future talent: This initiative, designed to attract and teach the with specialist resourcing partner Cielo, a leading global provider Shawbrook employees of tomorrow, was launched over summer, of talent acquisition services.
This partnership will allow us greater intending to entice new talented individuals whose core values scope to accommodate our business growth and further promote and prospects are similarly aligned to that of Shawbrook.
the Shawbrook employer brand to a wider market.
From day one I had a real job to do and the opportunity to contribute.
Colleague interaction: The 2016 employee survey, urging My ideas are listened to despite the limited experience I had in the employees to offer their opinions of the Group.
financial field: I genuinely feel like part of the team with the ability to influence the outcomes of the bank.
The survey achieved a 78% response rate, surpassing the previous Georgina Griffin, Graduate.
It also achieved an 81% overall engagement score: 7% above the financial services benchmark demonstrating our employees Workforce diversity: We believe in supporting diversity and creating enthusiasm for their workplace.
an inclusive culture where all our people feel valued and able to fulfil their potential.
During 2016, we signed up to the HM Treasury We also believe in giving back to our employees and offering them Women in Finance Charter, in support of our commitment to gender the opportunity to be a greater part of our growing organisation.
equality, particularly in relation to senior management.
Currently, As a result we have continued running our employee Sharesave 33% of our Executive Committee members are female well above scheme, which gives permanent and fixed-term-contract colleagues the industry average of 14%.
the opportunity to join a tax-free savings scheme and buy shares at a 20% discount.
Communication and consultation: We continue to involve and inform employees on matters that affect them.
Through our intranet, team meetings, regional divisional conferences and national conferences, we keep employees informed of news and strategic developments.
Through initiatives such as My Shawbrook Idea we seek to harness the ideas of our people to build on this work.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 61 Gender equality Our gender demographics are set out below.
Board 82% 18% Male 9 Female 2 ExCo 67% 33% Male 6 Female 3 This is a very good result All colleagues when compared with our 58% 42% benchmark group.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
