com I Stock code: SHI Our people SIG VALUES These values were developed by our OUR VALUES ARE: TRUST, RESPECT, INTEGRITY, COMMITMENT, TEAMWORK AND FUN.
people and are the guiding principles by which we work with our customers, our suppliers, our communities and each other.
They are the bedrock of our Stronger Together vision and we bring them to life in everything we do.
z with regional training on how to conduct Create a cohort of leaders equipped to Developing our people an effective performance review and over drive the strategic growth of SIG.
We recognise that developing our peoples 80% of our colleagues now benefit from an skills and expertise is the right thing for z Embed a stronger culture of collaboration annual, and sometimes bi-annual review.
them, for us and for our customers.
and understanding across the Group.
In addition to our PDR process, we identify z Accelerate the development of highThis starts when people join SIG.
Across our people with potential for growth through our potential managers, ensuring that we Group, new joiners attend a local induction annual talent review.
In 2016 we worked significantly improve our talent pipeline programme that familiarises them with our with the leaders of all business areas to and support succession plans.
history, culture, values and strategy.
This make sure we are identifying both our high is an important part of embedding our performers and also our high-potential Of course, we also continue to invest Stronger Together ethos across the Group.
employees, with a view to developing them significantly in the training and development Throughout peoples careers, our through on-the-job experience, projects, of employees at all levels.
For example, Performance Development Review international assignments and coaching we are investing in e-learning to give more PDR process ensures all managers and or mentoring from internal and external of our people access to convenient and employees know what is expected of managers.
efficient learning opportunities and we them in their roles and that performance is continue to develop our language skills In particular, we are supporting the measured and managed.
It also provides across the Group.
development of our high-potential an opportunity for employees to discuss employees through our new RISE their career aspirations with their manager, programme, which was launched this year.
set development plans and take action on This programme draws together our highthose plans during the year.
We continue to potential middle managers on an 18-month support the development of our managers development programme that will: 43 25165.04-AR2016 27 March 2017 12:13 PM Proof 10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Our people CONTINUED DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE Growing our talent DEVELOPING WORLD-CLASS TALENT Finding and developing talented people as they begin their careers is key to our future success.
BOGUMILA WINS Apprenticeships SIG GOLD Apprentices continue to be a great source of fresh talent for our business.
We remain Bogumila Czernecka, Health & Safety committed to supporting the early careers Manager in SIG Poland, was among 11 and development of young people as they Gold Award winners in our 2016 SIG come into our business through a variety of Awards.
Bogumila was recognised in local apprenticeship schemes.
In 2016, 35 the Zero Harm category, impressing the apprentices joined us 13 in the UK and 22 judges with her innovative approach to in Germany.
improving health and safety across our Polish business.
Alongside other initiatives, Graduates she launched a national competition to Our International Graduate Programme find the safest SIG branch in Poland, is now well established within the Group, encouraging branch workers and drivers with nine new recruits joining the scheme to share best practice and ideas about in 2016.
While we continue to recruit health and safety.
She also introduced graduates into specific functional areas on a state-of-the-art training for lorry and country-by-country basis, the international company car drivers which covered ANDY CAWLEY, DIRECTOR OF UK SHARED SERVICES, programme provides successful applicants emergency braking, avoiding obstacles UK ACCOUNTS, CONGRATULATES AISLING ON HER with insight and exposure across our UK & and even a simulation of an overturning ACCA AWARD Ireland and Mainland European businesses.
This led to a 50% reduction both The two-year programme is for high-calibre in traffic accidents and in insurance people who are capable of developing into premiums.
Bogumilas health and safety our future leaders.
It involves four rotations bulletin complemented these initiatives in different business areas and five extensive by regularly providing practical tips about 2016 WAS A SUCCESSFUL development modules.
workplace risks and how to avoid them.
YEAR FOR AISLING Overall, Bogumilas efforts have helped Alongside our internal work with graduates, to halve the number of accidents in SIG we supported Enactus as a Gold Sponsor.
HYLAND, ONE OF OUR Poland since 2013.
Enactus is a community of students, GROUP FINANCE TEAM academics and business leaders that develops outreach projects to improve the MEMBERS lives of people across the world.
After studying for her accountancy qualification for three years, Aisling scored the joint highest mark in the world in one of her last papers the P5 Advanced Performance Management exam.
To mark this outstanding achievement, Aisling was presented with a special Association of Chartered Certified Accountants ACCA Global Prize Winner award.
Thanks to her dedication to studying and the onthe-job learning she has gained at SIG, Aisling is now a fully qualified Chartered Accountant.
Studying while working full time can be really demanding, but Ive had lots of support from SIG, explains Aisling.
The Company has paid for my exams and tuition courses, and Ive been able to take some study leave each year.
Everyone in Group Finance has really encouraged me, too.
Theres always been someone willing to help if Ive had a question or needed advice.
BOGUMILA RECEIVES HER AWARD FROM 44 44 MARCIN SZCZYGIE, MANAGING DIRECTOR SIG POLAND 25165.04-AR2016 27 March 2017 12:13 PM Proof 10 STRATEGIC REPORT www.
com I Stock code: SHI new collaboration tools so that we can our strategy.
The SIG Listens results also Internal communications continue to work stronger together in the told us that we could improve the way we We recognise the importance of two-way future.
recognise the performance of our people communication with our people.
So, we introduced we begin with our senior leaders, reaching Finally, our performance review process the Values in Practice ViP recognition them through regular broadcast calls, for employees facilitates meaningful twoscheme in the UK, alongside our Groupemail bulletins, e-zines and face-to-face way communication.
See Developing our wide SIG Awards see Recognising briefings.
Those leaders take responsibility people for more information about this.
outstanding performance for more details.
for cascading messages to their teams via emails and team meetings so that they can As well as these large-scale initiatives, Engaged employees gather feedback along the way.
As well managers across the Group have held SIG Listens is our employee engagement as this cascade process, we use intranet focus groups to understand more about survey.
It gives our people the chance to tell articles, posters, mailings and information their teams views and have put local action us what we are doing well and how we can booklets to keep people informed.
plans in place in our various countries of improve, to make SIG an even better place operation as a result.
These are receiving to work.
In 2016, our Road to 2020 roadshows positive feedback from our employees and brought our senior leaders face-to-face with Throughout 2016, we have focused on the are having an impact locally.
managers from across the Group to discuss areas for improvement that were highlighted our strategy and direction.
Ideas generated We plan to run the next SIG Listens survey in our last survey in 2015.
For example, in these sessions were then incorporated in the second half of 2017. the 2015 results told us that our people into our forward planning.
Operational wanted greater clarity about our vision and employees also get the chance to talk to strategy.
In response, we ran our Road to our leaders through regular Meet the Group 2020 roadshows with managers across the Executive Committee events and our Group and provided them with materials to annual programme of local roadshows.
help cascade information about our future direction to their teams.
We have also Of course, communication between our used intranet articles and e-zines to keep people is crucial too.
The ongoing upgrade employees up-to-date about progress on of our email system is enabling us to explore 45 25165.04-AR2016 27 March 2017 12:13 PM Proof 10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Our people CONTINUED BOARD MEMBERS SENIOR MANAGERS ALL EMPLOYEES 71% 87% 79% MALE MALE MALE 29% 13% 21% FEMALE FEMALE FEMALE We also encourage our employees to We value diversity of thinking and see this Recognising outstanding become Shareholders in the Company.
At as critical in generating new ideas and performance the senior level, we operate a Long Term innovative solutions for our customers.
Recognising excellent performance and Incentive Plan.
Across our UK business Employment opportunities are available to celebrating success is part of our culture.
we operate a Share Incentive Plan SIP disabled persons in accordance with their that gives one matching share for each abilities and aptitudes on equal terms with Our annual, Group-wide SIG Awards share purchased by the employee up other employees.
If an employee becomes give our leaders the chance to nominate to a maximum of 20 per month.
As at disabled during employment, we make employees at all levels who have gone 31 December 2016, there were 1,010 every effort to enable them to continue the extra mile for SIG.
The awards are employees participating in the SIP.
in employment by making reasonable presented by our senior leaders and the adjustments in the workplace and providing winners are celebrated through newsletters SIG implemented the UK Governments retraining for alternative work where and intranet articles.
National Living Wage from 1 April 2016, necessary.
going beyond the legal requirement and This year, our UK business also introduced adopting the rate for all employees aged 21 the Values in Practice ViP recognition Gender diversity and above.
This reflects our commitment programme.
This enables our people At 31 December 2016, across the total to becoming an employer of choice and to recognise colleagues who have workforce, 2,188 21% of all employees proactively rewarding our people.
demonstrated our values and is especially were female and 8,195 79% were male.
important as it involves peer-to-peer The requirement to report on gender pay will Two Board members 29% were female nominations.
We aim to roll out ViP further apply from 6 April 2017.
The Group will take and five Board members 71% were male.
across the Group in 2017. its first snapshot of pay data on 5 April 2017 Ten senior managers 13% were female and publish it by 4 April 2018. and 66 senior managers 87% were male.
Employee benefits SIG continues to work towards improving We take a fair and consistent approach its workforce diversity and this will be an Equal opportunities to both fixed and variable pay, which is ongoing area of focus in 2017.
Our policy is to provide equal opportunities regularly benchmarked both externally and to all existing and prospective employees.
Across the Group, we recognise that our reputation is dependent upon fair and Our bonus schemes are designed to equitable treatment of all our employees and reward exceptional performance.
For our we prohibit discrimination on the grounds Senior Leadership population, the bonus of race, religion, gender, disability, sexual operates to an aligned framework across orientation, age, nationality or ethnic origin.
the Group, specifically focusing on GroupEmployment opportunities are equally wide deliverables and outcomes.
awards are also made in the local operating businesses aligned to local performance results.
These are key in driving and rewarding performance at this level.
com I Stock code: SHI 50 Introduction to governance GOVERNANCE 51 Corporate governance 62 Audit Committee report 66 Nominations Committee report 68 Directors remuneration report Strategic Report Divider 86 Directors responsibility statement STRONGER TOGETHER 47 47 25165.04-AR2016 27 March 2017 12:13 PM Proof 10
