Corporate social responsibility HIGHLY SUPPORTIVE ENVIRONMENT We take our social responsibility seriously, particularly in the areas of charitable activity, looking after our employees and minimising our environmental impact.
Charities on-site composting at the Marlow office.
All Softcat offices excluding Glasgow are ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 certified.
Glasgow will undergo testing in the The charities team at Softcat has been operating formally for almost a decade, new financial year.
raising money for a number of worthy causes chosen by our staff and, where possible, for causes our staff are already directly involved in or affected by.
GHG emissions We aim to do this by getting as many of ourpeople involved as possible, as well Our emissions have been calculated using the GHG Protocol Corporate as customers and suppliers, in order to fulfil what we see as a very important Accounting and Reporting standard revised edition, together with the part of our corporate responsibility.
We feel itis important to promote awareness latestemission factors from DEFRA and DECC.
of hardship and worthy causes and to show how individuals and teams may come together to do something fantastic for the greater good.
Scope 1 comprises emissions from our pool cars and natural gas burnt for heating in our owned buildings.
The primary purpose has been to help raise money and provide assistance for charities, which has resulted in over 1.5m raised since the beginning of Scope 2 comprises our energy consumption in leased the programme, and 240,000 alone in 2016, through both employee and andownedbuildings.
The Company has also benefited enormously from the 1,000 programme as this has helped to increase staff engagement, employee satisfaction and staff development through the multitude of activities 950 employees run, encouraged and supported by the Company.
Many charities, both large and small, local and national, have also benefited 900 from this fundraising to date, including Cancer Research UK, Tuberous Sclerosis Association, Clatterbridge Cancer Charity, Helen & Douglas House, 850 Harry Mills Trust, EducAID Africa and Save the Children Haiti.
In particular, we have worked very closely with Dreams Come True over the last four years 800 and were delighted to reach 1m in total funds raised to date during 2016.
Alongside this, we support focus events from organisations such as Comic Relief, for whom we have acted as a contact centre for the last three years on top 750 of our own fundraising activities for the cause.
These events are great fun inand of themselves as well as helping those less fortunate than ourselves.
700 In the year ahead we will continue to support Dreams Come True as well as other charities we have an existing relationship with.
In addition, we plan to 650 FY16 FY15 develop some new themes for our efforts, including tackling homelessness in the regions close to our offices.
We will also work with the Bubble Foundation Scope 1 emissions Scope 2 emissions UK to raise funds for medical equipment, toys and educational aids for young children and their families.
We have chosen to present our total emissions relativeto the average number of employees, in order torepresent how our emissions are impacted Environmental activity by the growth of our business.
We are pleased to report a 13.8% reduction inemissions per employee in 2016.
Softcat is not a manufacturer of products and, as a services-based organisation, our carbon footprint islimited.
However, we take our environmental responsibility Intensity ratios seriously and try to contribute positively wherever possible across the business.
2016 2015 In our business, this means doing lots of small things and setting an example to employees.
tCO e m 1.05 1.32 2 tCO e employees 1.37 1.59 Softcats impact on the environment 2 In each office we have a group of volunteers who care about the environment: we call them the Green Team.
Environmental issues are of such importance Softcat in the community at Softcat that the Green Team can boast that its ranks include our CEO, As well as our charitable activities, Softcat endeavours toplay a positive Martin Hellawell.
The Green Team, alongside management, works together andactive role in the local communities where we operate.
This takes the toraise employee awareness around environmental issues.
form of helping several local sports teams and associations, providing volunteers for a number of activities and events and supporting bodies like the local Decisions at Softcat are influenced by our care and passion for the environment, Chamber of Commerce.
from our choice of low emission pool cars to our selection ofenergy-efficient office equipment.
Softcat uses LED lighting and thin clients instead of standard energy-hungry desktops and has installed technology that automatically powers down devices when not in use.
We recycle paper, plastic and cans and have 26 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 tCO e 2 Strategic report 2 1 3 1.
Mayball event: Softcat charity leaders with Jack Whitehall.
Looking after our employees Softcat strives to provide a highly supportive environment for our most important assets our employees.
We are committed to equality and diversity and try to provide the very best in employee welfare.
We provide excellent training, development opportunities, strong feedback mechanisms for employees on their performance and frequent communication between employees and the senior team.
Regular face-to-face communication between the organisation and its employees isseen as paramount and includes a weekly all-Company meeting.
The Company provides a wide range of benefits, including weekly on-site visits by a doctor and access to a plethora of Softcat sporting and social activities.
If any member of the Softcat team or their immediate family faces personal difficulties, we look to support them in any way we can.
Gender breakdown A breakdown of the Board, senior managers and all employees is shown below: 2016 2015 1 1 Number % Number % Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Directors 5 1 83 17 5 0 100 0 Senior managers 10 1 91 9 10 1 91 9 Total permanent employees 649 278 70 30 565 229 71 29 Note 1.
At Softcat we remain committed to gender diversity and acknowledge the Davies Report recommendation that at least 25% of Board members should be female.
The Company recognises the benefits that it gains from having a diverse workforce throughout the organisation including at Board level.
Diversity inits many forms, including but not limited to, the skills, industry experience, race, ethnicity and gender of the workforce continues to enable the Company to maintain its competitive advantage.
The Strategic Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by Graham Charlton Chief Financial Officer 19 October 2016 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27
