34 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Group actively engages with local universities in our key EMPLOYEES locations and offers internships and working student opportunities The Group promotes a culture where people can achieve and be in Canada, the US, UK, Germany and Austria.
In the UK, the Group recognised for their achievements, where people have the support has established an intern and graduate program, supporting they need to develop themselves and where people are valued students through a full-year paid internship and provide support, and treated with respect.
The Group continues to operate by its expertise and guidance for their final year projects.
Many of the core values: simplicity, empowerment, passion, innovation, and interns receive permanent offers to join Sophos post-graduation, authenticity.
To aid with the development of all of the Groups as well as financial assistance for their final year of study.
"employees, unlimited access has been made available to one of the largest independent online libraries of e-learning courses in the COMMUNITY & CHARITIES world for technical, personal and leadership skills development, Sophos employees come from many countries and walks of life, in addition to role specific training and access to Instructor-Led but all share the same core values, including a commitment to Training ""ILT"" aligned to their development and career aspirations."
help others and make a positive impact in the communities where The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities and they live and work.
From the global headquarters in the UK, to the recruits and promotes staff on the basis of their experience, offices in India, Hungary, the Philippines and many other places, qualifications, skills and attitude.
Sophos corporate social responsibility efforts stretch across the world.
At the end of the financial year the gender breakdown of employees and Directors was: In the UK the Group continued its long-term support for the Princes Trust: based in the UK the Trust supports 13 to 30 year olds Executive & who are unemployed, struggling at school or at risk of exclusion.
Non-Executive Senior Amongst other activities, during the year, a team from the UK office Directors Managers Employees completed the three-peaks challenge, raising 6,000 for the charity.
Female 1 13 600 Around the world the Group has supported a number of charities Male 8 70 2,194 and community projects including: The Group has defined Senior Managers as members of the Senior The Polio Foundation Management Team and their direct reports excluding Executive Association fide Damas fide Fillipinas Directors separately reported.
Tlvie The Group conducts a global Employee Opinion Survey on an DELTA annual basis to gain feedback from employees and help identify and deliver actions that will increase employee engagement and Global Jet Watch Project company performance.
Sophos will continue to identify and drive actions on a global, location and functional basis.
CASE STUDY: GIRLS IN CODING DAY In November 2015, Sophos hosted its participated in presentations from a number first ever Girls in Coding event at the of women in senior technical roles within Groups headquarters in Abingdon.
The the Group as well as Simon Reed, VP of event was designed to engage, motivate Sophos Labs.
and challenge the brightest aspiring young One of the students said It was challenging female programmers in Oxfordshire: in a way that I really like you know you can boosting confidence and encouraging girls do it but it takes a lot of effort and thats to compete in what has traditionally been a something that I really like as I like problem male-orientated field.
solving I was already thinking about a Forty two students battled against each career in coding but I didnt know quite yet.
other in eight teams as they undertook Today has really helped me decide.
four DEFCON-style coding challenges and OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35 Employees ENVIRONMENT Employees being encouraged to share transportation The Group is committed to effectively managing and improving its environmental performance and minimising the impacts Employees being encouraged to use alternative means of of the business on the environment, by driving continual more environmentally friendly transport and facilities to environmental improvement.
accommodate that will be provided Employees are encouraged to minimise waste and The Group accepts that it bears a responsibility for ensuring recycle wherever possible that a continuing contribution is made to improve the quality of the environment and aims to continue to achieve this through Operations management of its premises, control of its operations and Wherever possible recyclable materials will continue to encouraging its staff to act and work in an environmentally friendly manner.
be used in packaging operations Suppliers being asked to pursue a policy of supplying Practical means of complying with this policy include existing, goods in recyclable materials ongoing and planned procedures: The use of non-recyclable materials reduced to a minimum Premises The policy of using the minimum quantity of packaging Continual efforts to minimise energy loss consistent with ensuring the maintenance of product protection, quality and safety will be further developed Continual efforts to improve the efficient use of energy Wherever possible materials will continue to be recycled, Continual reduction in energy wastage or collected for recycling When procuring new equipment, ensuring it not only meets the business needs long-term but is also energy efficient The premises will continue to be kept in a good state of repair The grounds will continue to be cultivated in an environmentally friendly manner STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL The Strategic report on pages 6 to 37 was approved by the Board on 25 May 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Kris Hagerman Chief Executive Officer CASE STUDY: ADOPTING A VILLAGE A Sophos group company has adopted a The initiatives taken, and continue to take, rural village in India to uplift the lives of for uplifting the lives of the rural and urban 350 families living in the village.
The aim is poor are an important part of who we are.
to improve education, health care, family Sophos believes there is a long way to go welfare, infrastructure, sanitation and before a better future is delivered to the sustainable livelihood patterns in the village.
underprivileged and until we achieve this More than 100 employees have volunteered objective, we will continue our efforts to to work a few hours every week at the better their lives.
village to teach over 200 students.
36 STRATEGIC REPORT Dance like no o fines watching, encrypt like eve ryone is.
Building the Sophos brand GROWING AWARENESS OF SOPHOS To sustain a clear voice and connection to our partners and customers Sophos BRAND DRIVES MOMENTUM FOR adheres to the simple philosophy in marketing.
It is authentic in voice, genuine CHANNEL PARTNERS in sentiment and the voice of reason in a scary world.
We have a maniacal focus on whats important to our customers and we try to do it with a bit more personality than what is typical for the industry.
This makes our marketing seem somewhat unconventional.
But it works, and our customers and partners appreciate it.
FREE TOOLS Nothing helps connect a technology brand with IT professionals more than the technology itself.
Although Sophos is focused on mid-market enterprises, we realise that everyone, whether at work or at home, needs effective, simple security that just works.
To expand the number of people who are familiar with the Sophos brand and to enable our enterprise customers to protect their employees at home, we have developed a range of free tools to protect home computing users.
These include a free home version of our UTM, anti-virus for Mac, virus removal tools, free Android security, free Linux OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 Dance like no o fines watching, encrypt like eve ryone is.
: P server security and most recently Sophos The award-winning Chet Chat podcast videos that are designed to connect with Home, a cloud-managed PC and Mac home garners about 4,000 listens per episode.
our customer and partner audiences, often protection solution.
The editorial explains security-related news with humour.
Many of these are shared and events in plain language.
It is often across social media and support our global SOCKS quoted in the industry media as a trusted marketing campaigns.
In recent years, we source of information.
The regular article have marked occasions such as Christmas, IT professionals like socks.
Last year Sophos contributors are security experts and Mothers Day, Sys Admin Day and other gave out free IT themed socks for Sys Admin researchers at Sophos with more than 20 holidays with special videos that connect Appreciation Day as a gesture of gratitude years of front-line experience.
directly with our audiences and help Sophos to all the unsung IT heroes across the globe.
to stand out in the marketplace with a The socks became so popular that we made OUT OF HOME ADVERTISING unique voice.
We now have hundreds of thousands of IT sock-wearing In 2015 Sophos started testing some out MARKETING METRICS devotees and more than a few potential of home advertising concepts to enhance sales leads that may need an updated IT brand awareness in certain key markets.
Sophos marketing is a metrics-driven security solution now or in the future.
The results exceeded our expectations with organisation with detailed ROI and web traffic in those markets increasing by marketing influence metrics.
Throughout And its not just socks.
Sophos has become 221 percent during the test period.
Like FY16 weve continued to see steady so popular that weve starting offering with our other marketing efforts, our aim is improvement of our marketing metrics Sophos-branded lunchboxes, hiking gear to connect with our target audience, show across all geographies and product and even surfboards.
a bit of personality and let the market know lines.
"With our ""channel first"" approach, that Sophos understands what it takes to we dedicate a large percentage of our NAKED SECURITY keep organisations secure."
marketing budget to partner recruitment, Naked Security is a highly respected partner enablement and partner cosecurity industry news source that Sophos VIDEOS marketing activities.
As with our sales publishes five days a week.
With more than strategy, we seek to get channel leverage by Video content is the most effective and focusing time, effort and resources on our 600,000 unique visitors per month and compelling online communication method most productive partners in each country.
more than 40,000 subscribers to the daily today.
Sophos has a dual strategy of newsletter, it reaches more individuals than educational content and quirky engaging many commercial security news services.
