Strategic Report Ethics Report Running our business in an ethical First Impressions from Andy Cowan, Vice President of Finance, Particle Measuring Systems way makes business sense.
I have always been a part of global companies which put ethics at the forefront of their values: however, at Spectris and Particle Measuring Systems I was impressed by the high 2016 highlights focus it receives not only on a day-to-day basis but even as Absolute Integrity Award launched.
part of the recruitment process.
It certainly was a strong factor for me in choosing to join the Spectris Group that the senior managers who interviewed me not only shared Anti-bribery and compliance audits.
the Code of Business Ethics but also took an opportunity to ask questions to ensure that I would embody those values Re-emphasis of culture and ethics if offered employment.
Identifying and reinforcing the importance of ethics even before you hire an employee is .
anextremely important part of building and maintaining a strong ethical culture.
Culture, ethics and leadership At Spectris, we believe that maintaining a strong and consistent As our programme has matured, we have been pleased to see corporate culture supports long-term performance and is an increasing willingness for in-country management and staff particularly important in the context of the Groups operating to escalate concerns regarding suspected violations of our Code model and entrepreneurial nature.
The Board acknowledges its ofBusiness Ethics to senior management: further details are role in shaping, monitoring and overseeing culture, as well as contained on the opposite page under A culture of openness ensuring alignment between our values, strategy and business and support.
Culture and ethics are a regular discussion focus for the Board, its Committees and the Executive team throughout the As part of their leadership commitment, senior managers are year.
During 2016, discussions focused on a range of topics required to certify annually that they have fostered an open including our go-to-market model and managing compliance ethical culture, including having either dealt with or reported risk in China, the evolution of the ethics programme and its anysuspected violations of the Code of Business Ethics.
future strategy, aligning values with incentives and the output For certification purposes, senior management includes the ofanti-bribery andcorruption audits.
Executive team, operating company Presidents, theFinance and Administrative Head inRussia, Vice Presidents, Country Culture and ethics on our agenda Managers, Senior Sales Managers and Ethics Officers.
All senior managers had confirmed compliance for the period ended 9 Board 5 31 December 2016 as at the date of this report.
4 Audit and Risk Committee 2 In order to retain leadership focus on embedding an ethical 12 culture across the Group, during 2017 we will be re-designing Executive Committee 5 our incentive schemes to encourage ethical behaviour in 1 Presidents Meeting addition to producing the desired business results.
1 1 Finance Council Absolute Integrity Award 1 One way in which we emphasise the importance of culture Number of meetings in 2016 Culture and ethics on the agenda isthrough the Spectris Absolute Integrity Award, which was launched during the year.
This is a Group-wide initiative Awareness of the importance of culture and ethics does not whereby employees are nominated for demonstrating true stopat the Board or Group-level management: it is present commitment to our absolute integrity value.
The award is throughout the organisation and our senior and middle designed to emphasise the importance of absolute integrity in management play a fundamental role in setting the appropriate our business practice, communicate success stories and provide tone at an operational level.
Managers are expected to an opportunity to recognise and celebrate the positive ethical demonstrate ethical leadership and this is reinforced in a number behaviour displayed across the Group.
Our first award of ways, including our recruitment and on-boarding processes.
newsletter publishing the initial nominations was launched in As part of their induction, new leaders to the Group participate November 2016.
Each nominee received a letter from the in an ethical leadership engagement session.
The session ChiefExecutive congratulating them individually on their provides a forum to connect the Groups purpose and strategy nomination and thanking them for exemplifying our values.
toculture, discuss the business case for ethics and factors Thewinner, Salma Cassam Chena Thiry, was announced in affecting decision-making, and to develop skills to cascade the earlyFebruary 2017 and will be presented with her award message across their teams.
In February 2016, 23 senior leaders attheannual Presidents Meeting later this year.
participated in a leadership engagement session, including a new operating company President and Finance Director, and anumber ofkey Sales and General Managers.
In December, a similar engagement session was held for 36 members of theMillbrook team following that acquisition.
Each session issponsored and attended by an Executive team member.
50 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Through the deployment of our bespoke Code of Business Salma Cassam Chena Thiry, Legal Counsel, Ethicscourse, we have made available our Decisions Guide winner of the 2016 Spectris Absolute mobile app to employees.
The app provides a simple set of IntegrityAward questions to help employees address an issue in the right way I feel very honoured to have been selected as the winner and reach the right decision.
It also provides contact details ofthis first Spectris Absolute Integrity Award.
When I forall our Ethics Officers whom employees can raise concerns joined BTG in 2013, I was impressed by the high level with or seek guidance from.
ofcommitment to and genuine leadership engagement All reports are followed up and investigated and the results onethics and compliance.
The more I got involved in arecommunicated to the Audit and Risk Committee every day-to-day matters and related challenges, the more evident sixmonths.
We make a commitment to protect the careers it became to me that BTG, and more broadly Spectris, were andreputations of employees who report wrongdoing, as living up to their core values.
Having created such a unique longas they do so in good faith and in the best interests environment where colleagues can have open, candid oftheSpectris Group.
discussions on the ethical dimension of complex business issues, leading to collegial and sound decisions, is in my During 2016, 39 reports were received via a number of sources viewa fantastic achievement.
In addition, receiving the and the charts below show the number of reports received from fullsupport of top management when assessing ethical each region and the methods used to report the allegations.
dilemmas is the clearest evidence that Spectris has been Each allegation was investigated and resolved and additional verysuccessful in embedding a strong ethical culture guidance, training and monitoring made available or disciplinary throughout the organisation.
action taken, in some circumstances including employment termination, as appropriate.
Culture and acquisitions Culture and ethics also comprise a key element of our Reporting by region acquisition strategy.
Our values and emphasis on ethics create 1 Asia 28 1 apositive point of difference during our acquisition cycle, 3 2 North America 7 whether through target identification, deal execution or 3 Europe 4 integration processes.
4 Latin America 0 In looking at acquisition targets, we evaluate the alignment of cultural fit and values through our management discussions and 2 due diligence processes.
By adopting this approach, we seek to ensure that a new business is prepared to do business ethically and that we acquire businesses that are aligned with our values.
This both makes business sense for Spectris but also makes Spectris a more desirable parent for acquisition targets.
This alignment of culture and values is an important factor in Reporting methods maintaining the high level of management and employee retention that we achieve post acquisition.
1 Formal complaint 13 1 2 Management 7 When new businesses join the Group, we work in conjunction 3 Internal audit 3 with the management team to introduce and embed our values 4 Anonymous 16 and ensure that the ethics programme is rolled out as a priority.
First impressions from Jonathan Eaton, Chief Commercial Officer, Millbrook Group 2 Due to a strong focus on integrity and business ethics 4 3 already within the culture of Millbrook, the integration into Spectris, including the formal ethics programme and ongoing training, is proving a natural progression for Addressing ongoing challenges our business.
We recognise that this is important to our As we reported last year, the ethical environment in certain customers and the continued attention to ethical conduct Asiancountries continues to be challenging.
We have taken has been well received.
anumber of actions to strengthen our control framework.
Adedicated China Compliance Officer was recruited in 2016 toprovide independent scrutiny and oversight of operations A culture of openness and support inChina and subject matter expertise and advisory support We actively encourage a culture of openness, engagement and tothe operating companies in relation to bribery, fraud and communication, so employees feel they can discuss any issues anti-trust risks, as well as strengthen our second line of defence.
that arise in the course of their work and raise any concerns withtheir managers.
The importance of creating an open and transparent culture is reiterated in our periodic ethics refresher training.
com gives our people, business partners and other third parties theability to report concerns anonymously if they wish.
51 Strategic Report Ethics Report continued In addition, later this year we will conduct a series of workshops operating companies efforts to implement the anti-corruption in China on conflicts of interests and launch a voluntary standards fully and consistently by identifying gaps in disclosure programme to encourage employees who have implementation orbusiness site-specific needs and propose not, inline with our policies, previously disclosed a potential or remedial actions.
Ourrecent acquisition, Millbrook, will be actual conflict to come forward and report.
Employees will not reviewed 12 months post acquisition.
be punished for previous non-disclosure but legal and regulatory The audits involved testing implementation across a range breaches revealed will be dealt with in accordance with ofkeyindicators, including tone from the top, resourcing, applicable laws and regulations.
The workshops and disclosure conflicts of interest, gifts, hospitality and entertainment, programme will be extended to Taiwan and South Korea during government interaction, training and communications, the course of 2017. thirdparties, charitable and political activities, raising concerns Anti-bribery and corruption andethics in human resources.
Following the audits, detailed The scope of our Internal Audit function review includes remedial actions were provided to each operating company ethicsprogramme implementation.
During the year, discrete management team for completion by March 2017.
In addition, anti-bribery and compliance audits were conducted at 13 anumber of Group-wide trends and actions were identified, ofour14 operating companies to assess the robustness of shown in the table below.
implementation atan operational level, as well as support the Trend Solution Improve quality of third-party due diligence reviews Third-party due diligence webinars for reviewers and October 2016 relationship owners Improve awareness of risks associated with Group-wide guidance and training issued for Q1 2017 governmentcustomer interaction deployment Anti-bribery and corruption compliance processes Integrate gifts and entertainment processes into 2017 integrated into business operations work-flows Grouptravel and expenses technology platform Increase consistency in anti-bribery and corruption Best practice sharing, additional Group-level resource 2017 2018 standards and increased use of technology solutions Training, engagement and support New employees, including those who join the Group followingan acquisition, receive training on the Code of Business Ethics and other relevant topics withinsix months of joining.
The value The value A bespoke Code of Business Ethics e-learning training o of i f i n n tt ee gg rir tiyty coursewas rolled out to all operating companies to provide Code of Business Ethics supplementary interactive training for all employees Code of Business Ethics throughoutthe Group.
In December 2016, managers were provided with manager-led training toolkits to facilitate recurring discussions around managing anti-bribery and corruption risks.
Our ethics training and engagementstrategy comprises: values and risk-based training: interactive and engaging: delivery by senior and line managers: Our engagement strategy continues to focus on raising face-to-face wherever feasible: and awareness among employees that running our business in an online modules to reinforce awareness.
ethical way makes good business sense and providing relevant, practical training to help them with ethical decision-making.
Employee engagement is structured with the driving principles ofbeing values and risk-based.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 14 February 2017.
