Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Sustainability Report Sustainability lies at the heart Economic aims ofourbusiness decision-making.
Build successful relationships with customers, helping 2016 highlights themto enhance their productivity and reduce their carbonfootprint.
Increased number of operations achieve Maintain good corporate governance.
certification to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
HBM acquires ISO 5001 energy Focus on operational efficiencies, enhancing profitsthrough sustainable value creation.
Acquisition of Millbrook adds new products Environmental aims andservices for vehicle emissions testing.
Develop new products which can be manufactured and Continued working with leading suppliers operated in the most  way possible.
in high risk areas, with particular emphasis Reduce energy usage and minimise waste.
on anti-slavery and human trafficking.
Report externally on our environmental initiatives andprogress.
Group Human Resources Director appointed withspecific responsibility for diversity and Social aims talentdevelopment.
Ensure that our workplaces are safe.
Foundations for sustainable growth Sustainability lies at the heart of our business decision-making, Create a culture that attracts and retains talent ensuring that we consider both are we doing the right things?
and are we doing things right?.
It supports our overall Adopt values consistent with an ethical approach strategyto focus on innovative customer solutions to enhance toresponsible business.
productivity and deliver sustainable growth for our shareholders and enables us to adapt in a fast-changing environment.
In Work with our suppliers to help them meet our addition to building a well-governed and profitable business environmental and social standards.
which provides customers with the products and services Invest time, resources and money to help local communities, theyneed economic aims, sustainable growth also means particularly to promote science and technology in understanding the impact our business has on the environment educational establishments.
environmental aims and operating in a socially responsible way social aims.
The Company Secretary has overall responsibility for sustainability matters.
The operating company Presidents are responsible for taking actions within their operations in support of the Companys sustainability aims.
Developments, including risks andopportunities, are reviewed annually by the Board within thecontext of the overall Group strategy.
41 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Opportunities and risks We have identified the key opportunities and risks to our Economic aims sustainability aims and these are set out below.
At Spectris, sustainability is not just about how we do business, itis Opportunities the business we are in.
Our products help our clients become more sustainable, both economically and environmentally, because they Impact of climate change on the environment leads are designed to improve productivity, reduce waste and save time, customers toseek more efficient use of resources.
money and resources, including reducing power consumption.
This is a virtuous circle: our products make a significant contribution to Increasing spend on energy and energy taxes drive the achievement of a lower carbon world, and these products, in customers toseek cost reduction initiatives.
turn, drive our own economic success and future growth.
Increasing focus on alternative, non-fossil fuel energy New products are designed to help reduce environmental sources such as wind, solar and water power brings impact for customers... newapplications forour technology, including inthedevelopment of electric andhybrid vehicles.
High cost and increasing scarcity of some raw materials drive customers to improve efficiency and reduce wastage.... whilst helping to drive a sustainable business for Spectris.
Regulatory pressures such as carbon taxes, landfill taxes, disposal of harmful substances and limits on vehicle Our economic success is underpinned by good corporate industrial emissions mean customers need products and governance, strong ethical behaviour and sound risk systems to demonstrate compliance.
You can read more about our approach to governance on pages 53 to 94, our values on page 45 Risks andourrisk management process on pages 30 and 31.
Minimising energy use Extreme changes to weather patterns, for example water In energy-intensive industries such as cement and steel production, shortages or flooding of premises, could interrupt production our materials analysis instruments help drive efficiencies by optimising processes for Spectris companies or their suppliers.
the shape and size of the raw material particles.
This can generate Changes in regulation concerning the use and correct substantial reductions in energy use and hence carbon emissions.
disposal ofcertain materials in our products could lead to Another important sector for us is pulp and paper.
We make increased costs for developing replacement products and or durable high-precision ceramic and carbide-coated blades which potential fines fornon-compliance.
ensure that speciality papers and packaging receive exactly the A very small proportion of our products and processes right quantity and consistency of coating, which reduces waste havepotential environmental or safety risks if not and energy use.
Helping to minimise energy use also involves lowering the cost to our The introduction of new or stricter carbon taxes in any customers of operating our instruments by optimising the amount of location may increase operating costs.
power they require in use and on stand-by.
The case study opposite shows how we have designed a new instrument which uses a solar Loss of key employees or insufficient spend on new product panel for continuous operation when out in the field.
development projects may delay product launches.
Cutting emissions Having operations in many developing areas of the world Governments around the world are implementing ever stricter presents ethical risks resulting from different perceptions legislation in relation to air quality.
Our gas analysis products can ofthe way business may be conducted.
measure pollutants, enabling combustion processes to be optimised, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions generated by industrial processes.
This helps ensure compliance with environmental These opportunities are described in more detail on the legislation and often forms part of certification testing.
Our process for managing potential risks and power stations can save anything between 1% and 5% of their fuel uncertainties, together with mitigating actions, is outlined on costs by improving combustion efficiency, which means less energy pages 30 to 39. wasted, less use of natural resources and lower emissions.
Around the world, our carbon management service is helping airports to accurately measure and understand the carbon emissions from their operations.
Our technology is also being used in the automotive industry to design and test electric and hybrid vehicles and to develop more fuel-efficient engines which will emit fewer particulates, and we offer independent testing facilities for measuring vehicle emissions and fuel consumption.
42 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 In focus Environmental aims Remote noise monitoring As well as helping our customers to reduce their impact on the environment, this is also a focus for our own efforts and we monitor the use of key sources of energy electricity, gas, oil andsteam in our efforts to reduce consumption and save costs.
The following table summarises our performance.
Performance summary 2016 2015 Change Real-time noise monitoring is often required when planning Energy consumption new developments or demonstrating compliance with noise absolute MWh 90,132 89,030 1% regulations in urban and industrial areas.
These assessments Energy efficiency MWh per require sound levels to be measured continuously over long m revenue 68.3 75.6 -10% periods of time in order to determine environmental 3 Water consumption m 165,054 162,325 2% impact.
In 2016, Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration launched Greenhouse gas emissions anew noise monitoring terminal, the Noise Logger, which tonnes CO e 75,144 73,324 2% 2 records continuous noise measurements.
A solar panel, Total carbon emissions per battery and large memory card enable the equipment to m revenue 56.97 62.25 -8% beoperated remotely, thus reducing costly site visits to change batteries.
Excluding acquisitions and disposals made in the year.
Although our use of water is not material, we are conscious ofgrowing concern about the availability of fresh water and Supporting renewables theincrease in some areas of shortages and droughts due to We have world-leading expertise in providing solutions for customers changing weather patterns and the impact this may have on involved in renewable energy generation in the following areas: business.
For this reason, we monitor water consumption carefully Wind turbines have to be able to withstand extreme conditions throughout the Group and endeavour to reduce our usage such as gale-force winds and lightning strikes.
We are also helping our customers to improve technology is used in the research and development of new water purification systems to make fresh water available more materials, helping to identify mechanical stress on wind turbine easily and cost-effectively.
The case study on page 44 shows one components at an early stage in order to extend their life-cycle project we are involved in with a water treatment company.
We also provide systems to monitor turbine Greenhouse gas emissions tonnes CO e 2 performance remotely, ensuring that they are set up correctly for optimum performance and that preventive maintenance can be 2016 2015 scheduled where required.
This minimises wear and tear, prevents Scope 1 10,714 11,021 damage and optimises efficiency, saving both time and money.
Scope 2 35,291 35,470 As with offshore wind, maintaining the machinery involved in Scope 3 29,139 26,833 hydropower facilities can be expensive and time-consuming, and Total gross emissions 75,144 73,324 small improvements in efficiency and uptime can translate into Total carbon emissions per m revenue 56.97 62.25 major savings.
Our instrumentation can monitor turbines and generators in real time, to predict and prevent problems before Notes Emissions-releasing activities are categorised into three groups, known as they require a costly shutdown in order to be repaired.
These are: Scope 1 direct emissions : Activities owned or controlled by the company that release emissions straight into the atmosphere, for example We also have a presence in the solar energy sector, where our from combustion in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, vehicles: emissions equipment helps ensure that the layers of photovoltaic film in from chemical production in owned or controlled process equipment.
Scope 2 solar panels are the correct thickness for maximum efficiency.
energy indirect : Emissions released into the atmosphere associated with the Lighter weight and more flexible panels provide for an increased companys consumption of purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling.
Scope 3 other indirect : Emissions that are a consequence of the companys range of applications.
actions, which occur at sources which the company does not own or control and which are not classed as Scope 2 emissions, for example business travel, Reducing wastage waste disposal, or purchased materials or fuels.
Our instruments improve process efficiency and optimise Raw Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 data is measured and reported by all product quality, reducing wastage of raw materials and scrap Spectris operations worldwide.
This data is converted into carbon emissions tonnes CO e using the greenhouse gas conversion factors from the 2016 2 rates for our customers.
We also focus on reducing wastage DEFRA DECC Guidelines for Company Reporting and OECD IEA Emissions internally and seek to improve the efficiency of the raw materials fromFuel Combustion.
used in manufacturing our products.
Our reporting processes, and the above data derived from them, are verified byLloyds Register Quality Assurance.
43 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Overall CO emissions in absolute terms are slightly higher, Although we have not set specific Group-wide targets, our 2 dueto increased business activity during the year and the objective is to reduce energy consumption across the Group.
impact from acquisitions made in 2015, but internal efficiencies Management incentives are in place which encourage individual and higher sales have resulted in total carbon emissions per operating companies to reduce their electricity and water mrevenue decreasing by 8%.
consumption, for example, in order to improve profitability, and the opportunities identified by the EED audits will also help In January 2016, the GHG Protocol released the Scope 2 to reduce energy use.
Our Servomex business has committed Guidance: an amendment to the Corporate Standard.
Currently, to reducing its carbon footprint in terms of emissions at the all Scope 2 emissions by Spectris Group are calculated using the Technical Centre in Crowborough, UK, by 5% year-on-year and location-based method.
The Guidance suggests that companies has achieved certification by the Planet Mark for its commitment may use source or supplier-specific emission factors, known as to improve sustainability performance.
Our newly-acquired the market-based method.
This method requires companies to business, Millbrook, has a contract with its energy provider use specific emission factors or fuel mix information i. e. the tosource 45% of its electricity from renewables compared sources used to generate the electricity from their electricity withthe average for the UK of 19%.
Spectris has engaged with UK electricity suppliers to begin gathering this data as part of our continuous improvement We have been a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, to greenhouse gas reporting and we are looking at the feasibility which analyses the performance of companies for environmental, of obtaining this information for our worldwide operations.
social and governance practices, sinceitwas founded in 2001.
In the December 2016 review, our FTSE Russell ESG rating absolute In the meantime, we have calculated Spectris UK-based score improved from 2.7 to 3.1 out of 5, and our supersector companies emissions using both methods for 2016.
Using relative percentile score increased to 73 out of 100 2015: 53. themarket-based calculation, UK emissions from electricity usewould be 39% lower.
These emissions savings have not In 2016, we ceased to participate in the Carbon Disclosure been included in the total figures disclosed and are based on Project CDP as we are confident that the systems that we adeveloping calculation methodology.
now have in place for measuring and monitoring energyusage underline our commitment to environmental accountability and During 2016, we conducted further audits in line with enable usto provide  public disclosure of Article8of the European Energy Efficiency Directive EED, our emissions on an annual basis.
Our score of 98 out of 100 in which is known as the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme in the 2015 CDP survey for the 2014 financial year placed us in the UK, asthe legislation was implemented in further European the top 15% of companies in our sector.
The audits have identified opportunities for energy reduction and our operating companies are now progressing these initiatives.
In focus Improving water quality In May 2016, a large wildfire near Fort McMurray, a small town in Canada, led to around 88,000 residents being evacuated and left behind it soil thick with ash, which polluted the water supply.
While firefighters worked tirelessly protecting the outside of the local water treatment plant, employees worked around the clock inside keeping it in service.
One piece of equipment that was crucial to the clean-up operation was Malvern Instruments Zetasizer WT on-line zeta potential analyser.
This is a continuous and fully-automated clarification monitoring system which reduces vulnerability to sharp changes in incoming water quality from the fire ash.
The system was already in use at a treatment plant in Calgary, where it had been installed following the floods of 2013.
The high fire ash content polluting the water surrounding FortMcMurray had caused high alkalinity and unstable chemical conditions which the Zetasizer WT monitored, with the plant operator then taking the most appropriate action toadjust the chemical dosage.
As a result, water quality was restored in a relatively short time, so that when residents returned to their houses, clean drinking water was available.
44 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 This is a common challenge facing the engineering sector, andour businesses undertake a range of initiatives to raise Social aims theprofile of women in engineering and encourage others toenter the field of science and technology.
In January 2017, weappointed our first ever Group Human Resources Director How we do business with specific responsibility for talent management and diversity.
We have always placed a high priority on the standards by This is a key part of our Group talent development initiative to which we do business, because we believe that how we work identify and promote talent across the Group and is described isas important as what we do.
We have a comprehensive inmore detail on pages 62 and 63. strategy in this area and in recent years we have improved our governance processes and oversight, and enhanced our Code of In focus Business Ethics, in order to achieve our commitment to manage our business according to the highest ethical standards.
There is Encouraging young engineers more on this in the Ethics Report on pages 50 to 52.
Our values Our values are pivotal to how we operate and essential to our business success and growth.
They underpin the way we work, guide our decision-making and shape our culture.
Absolute integrity Empowerment Customer focus Restless innovation High performance In November, David Tipton, Managing Director of Omegas UK office, was elected as a Vice President of the Institute of Measurement and Control for a three-year term, effective Our people from 1 January 2017.
The Institute promotes professional Spectris is a specialised and technical business, and we rely excellence and the advancement ofthe science, technology onthe skills and expertise of our 8,900 people, many of and practice of measurement and control technology and whomare highly-qualified engineers and technicians.
havebuilt our success on a combination of operational excellence and intelligent innovation, and we know that such David says: I am passionate about our profession and am innovation requires a way of working which is open, positive concerned that we are not attracting enough engineers atall and respectful, and supports the development of new ideas, levels to become involved in our profession and our Institute.
and the taking of reasonable and measured risks.
Over the years, I have personally observed the benefits of academia and industry working closely together and I will be You can read more about the key role our people play in actively engaged in developing the Institute of Measurement ourstrategy and our business model on pages 6 and 10. and Control as the institute of choice for engineering Diversity and equality professionals operating in our technology arena.
Ours is a diverse business, with operations at more than One of the key challenges facing science and engineering 190locations throughout the world, and employees in over isto attract students into the profession, particularly 30different countries and cultures.
We recruit, develop and women, and to help them understand more about promote our people based on their talent, commitment and theindustry.
David gives presentations to local schools as achievement: everyone is treated equally and fairly whatever well as organising industry days with universities where their race, colour, religion, national origin, gender, sexual students visit Omegas facility in Manchester to learn more orientation, age or background.
Our people are key to the success of our business.
As such, weneed a workforce based on a diverse group of talent able toprovide solutions to a wide range of customers around the world.
We are aware that our current employee base is not fully representative of the geographies we operate in and that the gender balance does not reflect the population as a whole, asthe table on the following page demonstrates.
45 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued In the UK, our twolargest companies, Malvern and Millbrook, We do not tolerate discrimination or harassment in any form.
areputting in place processes to collect and publish data under the Disabled people are recruited, trained and promoted on the new Gender Pay Gap Reporting regulation, ahead of the deadline basis of aptitude and ability.
If employees become disabled, to publish the data on their websites by April 2018.
This legislation every effort is made to retain them and, when necessary, applies to employers with 250 or more employees who ordinarily re-train them for appropriate posts.
Our full employment work in Great Britain and whose contracts of employment are policyis published on our website at www.
governed by UK legislation, and details the difference in mean and We comply with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and median pay between men and women at the company.
As well as our anti-slavery training has been extended to all meeting the new disclosure requirements, the information will help employees worldwide.
us to focus on the underlying causes of any gender pay gap and We seek to attract and retain the best talent and our take action to ensure equality and fairness in the workplace.
compensation and benefits schemes are in line with other Employees by gender and role leading companies in our sector, with rewards dependent on As at 31 December 2016 theachievement of individual and corporate objectives.
Our Savings Related Share Option Scheme is available to all UK Male Female Total employees, and grants to senior management worldwide Directors 6 1 7 underour Performance Share Plan are designed to reward 1 Senior management 149 23 172 .
Other employees 5,946 2,443 8,390 We conduct employee satisfaction surveys as part of an Total 6,101 2,467 8,569 evaluation and measurement process, which also includes % of total 71 29 100 monitoring the rate of voluntary staff turnover in our key regions.
This is compared against local data for our industry Excludes contractors.
sector in order that our management teams can identify any 1 P residents or Managing Directors and their immediate reports whoare Directors orVice-Presidents.
unusual patterns and take the appropriate steps to improve employee retention.
Voluntary turnover rates are higher in Asia Another challenge facing engineering companies is how than in other regions as finding and retaining staff is a challenge toencourage more young people to pursue careers in for all companies due to the increasing opportunities in this manufacturing and engineering.
Our businesses participate in region.
We monitor the situation closely and make every effort various initiatives including student internships, apprenticeships, toretain our employees in this highly-competitive environment.
industrial placements, participation at school careers days and other events designed to raise awareness amongst school Staff turnover children of the opportunities to work in manufacturing and % of staff leaving the Company voluntarily engineering.
The case study on page 45 describes some of the 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 initiatives we are involved in to promote engineering to students.
Europe 5.0 5.0 3.1 3.2 2.7 Training, development and compensation Americas 8.1 7.7 5.8 6.1 5.2 We work hard to build a creative working environment for Asia 10.1 10.8 12.2 12.2 13.9 ourpeople with scope for individual responsibility and Total 7.2 7.1 5.9 6.0 5.8 personalachievement.
Our training programmes help our employees to develop both personally and professionally and Health and safety reachtheir full potential.
We carry out annual performance As a responsible employer, we take the health and safety of our reviews to determine each individuals training needs and assess employees seriously.
We are proud to have an excellent record their performance against the previous years targets.
In 2016, of safety in our workplaces, but we remain vigilant and track we appointed an HR Information Systems Manager who is our accident incident rate as a key performance indicator.
Local responsible for a new HR system which will provide our health and safety managers and officers carry out regular audits Group-wide e-learning platform and support the annual and employee training and suggest improvements in working competency-based assessment process and associated practices, where appropriate, in order to create a safer development plans and learning.
Two of our UK businesses, workplace.
Potential product-related health and safety issues are Malvern and Servomex, have received the Investors in People considered as part of the product design process and continuous award for their training, appraisal, employee development and improvement programmes focused on health and safety aim skills programmes.
toreduce accidents and injuries at our sites to as low a level We encourage our employees to maintain a healthy balance asreasonably practical.
between their working and personal lives, and offer flexible part-time and job-share opportunities to employees with family commitments, wherever possible.
46 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 We measure the total number of work-related accidents orill In focus health resulting in time lost in excess of three days.
In2016, this Helping to fight the Zika virus was 4.5 incidents per 1,000 employees, the same rate as 2015.
A significant proportion of days lost are due to stress-related conditions, with physical accidents having been successfully reduced to as close to zero as reasonably achievable.
Accident incident rate 1 Reportable accidents per 1,000 employees LoRes image 4.5 2016 4.5 2015 4.2 2014 4.4 2013 PANalyticals mission is to create a better world by helping 4.7 2012 people to analyse materials that matter to them and the Excluding acquisitions and disposals made in the year.
1 Work-related accidents or ill health resulting in lost time in excess of three days.
The companys LabSpec near-infrared analyser is being used Each of our operating companies is responsible for in the fight against Zika and Dengue, viral diseases that implementing the Group-wide health and safety policy, and infect well over 400 million people each year.
Prenatal Zika forcomplying with any additional local regulations.
Our Group infection has been associated with microcephaly and other policy covers our own employees, sub-contractors and, where serious brain anomalies.
Numerous studies have shown that appropriate, our suppliers.
You can read the full policy on infecting Zika and Dengue-carrying mosquitoes with a ourwebsite at www.
All our major locations targeted strain of the Wolbachia bacterium greatly reduces areregularly inspected by independent assessors for their the likelihood that the mosquitoes carry the Zika or Dengue compliance with health and safety policy and procedures.
The release of Wolbachia-infected mosquitoes has Anyrecommendations for improvements are put into practice.
been shown to rapidly spread and can infect over 80% Anumber of our UK offices have achieved certification to of the local mosquito population.
In order to judge the OHSAS 18001 see page 48 for details of this standard.
effectiveness of a release programme, wild mosquitoes must be trapped and screened for the presence of the Human rights Wolbachia bacterium.
Using the portable LabSpec analyser, Our human rights policy is consistent with the Core Conventions researchers have been able to distinguish between infected of the International Labour Organization, and we comply with and uninfected mosquitoes with 85%-95% accuracy,  human rights standards at all our enabling them to develop models that can be used to sites.
The policy includes our position on non-discrimination, rapidly detect Zika and Dengue transmission hotspots in harassment, pay and forced labour.
This information will enable quick identification of are also included in the due diligence process we undertake high-risk areas and prioritise efforts and resources.
This ensures that before we acquire a business, we are fully informed of their approach in areas such as non-discrimination, equal opportunities and We carry out regular inspections at our supplier sites and use freedom of association.
Our full human rights policy is available the SA 8000 Social Accountability Standard to assess our key on our website at www.
suppliers against specific criteria see box on page 48 for more Our customers information.
We have now completed the initial project with our We serve a broad spectrum of blue-chip customers across all key Asia Pacific suppliers and plan to extend this tocover key keymanufacturing industries.
We work closely with them to suppliers worldwide during 2017. understand their business, which gives us a unique ability to anticipate and respond to their changing demands and fosters strong long-term relationships.
You can read more about our customers on pages 11 and 18 to 25.
Our suppliers Our business is changing rapidly as we seek greater competitive advantage through efficiency gains and innovation, both in our products and how we work, whilst addressing new regulatory requirements and expectations from commercial and social stakeholders and shareholders.
Focusing on supply chain management is an important tool in achieving this.
You canreadmore about our suppliers on page 11.
Our Supply ChainManagement Policy can be found on our website at www.
47 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Spectris is committed to meeting the objectives of both the Lloyds Register Quality Assurance LRQA has independently UKModern Slavery Act 2015 and the California Transparency verified the data associated with energy consumption, water inSupply Chains Act of 2010, to prevent slavery and human usage, greenhouse gas GHG emissions, company vehicle trafficking in our corporate activities and ensure that our andair miles, voluntary labour turnover and accident incident supplychain is also free from these practices.
The LRQA Assurance Statement confirming terms of our Supply Chain Management Policy to include our Anti-slavery engagement, approach, opinion and observations is available and Human Trafficking Policy and are working with suppliers onour website.
located in higher-risk countries to ensure that both they and Our strategic sourcing team members work alongside local their supply chains conform to the standards enshrined in the managers to carry out regular inspections at our suppliers sites.
One of the biggest challenges we face isidentifying To date we have audited suppliers representing approximately evidence ofslavery in our supply chains and training has been 70% of our total purchasing spend in Asia in 2016.
Any current given to allSpectris supply chain management staff to help suppliers who decline to undergo an audit against the standard them in this.
95% of Group worldwide purchasing spend with are removed from the approved list and alternative suppliers are suppliers in the top 20 at risk countries is now subject toaudit.
No new suppliers are added to the approved list if they We are also committed to working with our supply chain decline to undergo an audit.
partners to increase transparency regarding the origin and traceability of minerals contained in products, and we support Certification standards the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for responsible supply chains ISO 14001 of minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas.
Under our This international standard ISO sets out the criteria for Conflict Minerals policy, we do not add conflict minerals to our the formulation and maintenance of an environmental products during the manufacturing process anddo not directly management system.
Certification to ISO 14001 requires purchase conflict minerals from any source.
Ifwe discover the anorganisation toeffectively manage its environmental use of these minerals produced in facilities that are considered impacts through commitments to pollution prevention, to be non-conflict free, in any parts or components we legal compliance andcontinual improvement.
procure, we will take appropriate actions to transition the Approximately 60% of Spectris manufacturing operations product to be conflict free.
by turnover are certified to ISO14001, as is our head office.
Spectris will also be affected to a small extent by REACH, OHSAS 18001 aEuropean Union regulation concerning the Registration, This standard is intended to help an organisation to Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals, adopted controloccupational health and safety risks.
It is currently to improve the protection of human health and the environment UK-specific but will shortly become an ISO.
Five Spectris from the risks that can be posed by chemicals.
This directive will offices, including the head office, have obtained have a minor impact on our Servomex business in the UK, which certification to OHSAS 18001. will be required to produce an inventory of every chemical that comes into, is part of, or goes out of the business.
SA 8000 Social Accountability Internationals SA 8000 is the most Management systems and certification widely-recognised global standard for managing human Our business comprises around 190 offices located in more than rights in the workplace.
It encourages an organisation to 30 countries around the world.
Although the countries have achieve best practice in ethical employment, trading and different legal frameworks and requirements, our global policies operations and includes much of the anti-slavery legislation are applicable across all our sites and are supplemented by local recently introduced.
At Spectris, we use this standard to policies.
We encourage our businesses to gain certification to assess leading suppliers in high-risk areas against criteria international standards and these are explained opposite.
such as workers rights, workplace conditions including Certification involves independent processes to verify the data child labour, forced labour, working hours, freedom of todemonstrate conformance and that the company is fulfilling association, compensation and discrimination and health, policy commitments and making continual improvement.
48 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our communities Our supply chain will remain a key area of focus for 2017, Our social responsibilities also extend to the communities in withfurther work planned to audit our key suppliers against which we operate.
We seek to play a positive role in our local ourenvironmental and social standards.
We are putting in communities and participate in a range of activities and placetraining on recognition of modern slavery and human educational initiatives.
trafficking in the supply chain for all supply chain management staff, in order toextend verification to all countries outside the Community involvement and decisions on charitable donations top 20 atriskcountries.
We will also be reviewing our supply and sponsorship are undertaken by local management teams chain management policies and processes to ensure that we are and vary from one company to another, depending on business compliant with upcoming legislation on, for example, conflict and regional priorities.
As already described, many of the minerals, and that appropriate monitoring systems are in place.
activities we undertake are aimed at supporting schools and In addition, we are working with our product development and universities to promote science, technology and engineering.
materials procurement teams worldwide on the issue of the Wealso run a number of awards and programmes aimed at EU Critical 20 List, a list of raw materials where long-term encouraging and providing support for young scientists who availability is threatened, to assess the impact of any of these areat the beginning of their careers.
which are used in Spectris products.
We do not give either cash or support-in-kind to political parties Further initiatives to improve the diversity of the workforce will or campaigns.
help us to identify and encourage high-potential employees and Looking ahead our Group-wide learning system will be made accessible to all We will continue to focus on growing our business in a employees worldwide.
sustainable way, both by developing products and services which help our customers to reduce their impact on the environment and by looking at our own processes and those of our suppliers inorder to lower our direct and indirect impacts.
We will continue to explore opportunities for energy savings identified by the Energy Efficiency Directive site audits, and our own Project Uplift initiative may also result in internal improvements which will benefit areas of our sustainability programme.
