S ST TR RA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP POR ORT T:: G OR five OR UVI P H EW R DIRECTORS REVIEW OUR PEOPLE Group Human Resources Directors review Our people Skilled and dedicated people really are at the heart of what we do in providing outstanding healthcare for our patients every day, and building the business for the future.
In response to these challenges facing healthcare provision in the UK, and the specific staffing requirements of our new and expanded hospitals, we are developing a refreshed and integrated people strategy.
We recognise that the private sector can provide exciting, rewarding and professionally challenging opportunities, with many advantages in terms of flexibility, training, long-term career development and other benefits.
A compelling employer brand This year, we have been developing and evolving our people strategy, aiming to create a compelling recruitment and employment proposition to attract and retain the staff we need.
We have conducted extensive research to enable us to develop a refreshed employer brand and employee value proposition.
Based on the facts and insights that this research has given us, our new employee value proposition reflects the areas which At 31 December 2016, we employed 12,454 employees have told us they value most people, comprising 3,365 bank workers and flexibility, training, career development and 9,089 permanent employees.
These numbers Caroline Roberts a clear articulation of what Spire Healthcare include nurses, theatre staff, allied health stands for and how private healthcare Group Human professionals, and administration and works in relationship with the NHS and our clinical support staff.
Nurses, in particular, also want to understand how they can transition to Our priorities and landscape the private sector.
Finding, recruiting, developing and retaining Our new end-to-end recruitment delivery the best leaders, clinical and support staff model now targets specific recruitment with the right skill mix to serve increasingly groups, such as newly qualified, experienced complex and high acuity patient needs is one or returning to practice nurses, and works of our key priorities.
by designing and tailoring bespoke and We know that engaged, motivated and specific strategies centred on the needs highly trained staff deliver the best care and specifications of our particular for our patients, and we are committed employment groups.
to recruiting and retaining the right talent The recruitment and staffing of our new across our portfolio.
hospitals in Manchester and more However, we, in common with the whole particularly Nottingham, has required in UK healthcare economy, are subject to a excess of 180 new positions to be filled, number of human resourcing issues: from a number which will grow significantly staff shortages in nursing and trained throughout 2017.
The process of filling these healthcare professionals, to an ageing positions has enabled us to trial successfully workforce and declining applications for our new approach to attracting, recruiting, nursing courses, to the potential impact of inducting and training staff.
Brexit on EU nationals thinking of coming to work in Britain, as well as those who are already working in the UK.
42 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION LOOKING AFTER YOU Rewarding loyalty Leading Hospitals What makes a Spire Hospital Director?
Spire Healthcares Hospital Diversity Directors are the key leaders Diversity and equality within our across our healthcare network workforce remains a key element to our delivering outstanding care to people strategy.
Our employees are patients, motivating their teams predominantly female, 10,166 or 82%, and building businesses with the compared to 2,288 or 18% male.
Our consultants in their area.
Great management includes 111 females out Hospital Directors are rare so of a total cadre of 199 compared to 149 we find and develop them where females out of a total cadre of 247 in 2015. we can both internally and Overall employees externally, through targeted recruitment.
2016 2,288 10,166 Will Pressley, who leads our 2015 2,261 10,165 new Nottingham hospital, 2014 2,256 10,113 transferred to the role after three years as Hospital Director of Spire Regency Hospital in Senior Managers Cheshire.
He has both a 15-year Will Pressley and Nayab Haider clinical background and four 2016 37 26 years executive experience 2015 41 25 running a privately owned, multi-site physiotherapy business.
His successor at Spire Regency 2014 38 27 Hospital, Nayab Haider, is a new recruit, joining from a large Board facilities management company and the NHS.
Nayab comments, 2016 7 2 Im not a clinician, but my role 2015 8 1 here is to work with the Head of Clinical Services and medical advisory committee to improve Male our core business.
Were subject Female to the same CQC governance structure and standards, but compared to the NHS we have much more choice in the development of our business plan, marketing, business One of the core values development and the services of Spire Healthcare is we can offer our customers.
compassionate care and in We share the same care and compassion, but I think the my short experience thats private sector is more advanced a living and breathing reality.
in the way we manage the care pathway, use our theatres, Its a genuine difference.
monitor KPIs and manage I think its in Spires DNA.
The result is better care for our patients.
Nayab Haider Hospital Director, Spire Regency Hospital Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 43 S ST TR RA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP POR ORT T:: G OR five OR UVI P H EW R DIRECTORS REVIEW OUR PEOPLE We are committed to playing our part in the training and development of future generations of healthcare professionals.
Caroline Roberts Group Human Resources Director Growing our own Developing our leaders In parallel with the progress made on our In a network that devolves significant employee value proposition, we are also autonomy to each hospital, the role and committed to playing our part in the training capability of our leaders is key.
The role 62,000 and development of future generations of Hospital Director is particularly crucial, Funds raised by hospitals of healthcare professionals.
combining, as it does, the three factors of clinical, people and commercial Hospitals fundraised over 62,300 We regard the UK Governments leadership delivered together for for their local communities and apprenticeship levy scheme, due to come our patients and the business.
charities over the last year.
into force in April 2017, as offering a great opportunity for us to enable young people We continue to support the development to enter the healthcare workforce, in both of our leaders at all levels, but crucially at clinical and non-clinical roles, throughout Hospital Director and the senior leadership 1,700 our business, as well as providing our team levels.
The case study on page 43 existing employees with a real career looks at the contrasting backgrounds of Educational events progression route.
two of our Hospital Directors.
1,700 GP clinical education events were held at our hospitals.
Our focus in 2017 is to design a strategy We also continue to invest in our junior which enables us to develop our own leadership cadre through, for example, our people: we believe growing our own, Management Fundamentals programme.
which includes apprenticeships and defining The programme teaches new and existing 26,000 clear career paths for our current employees, managers how to manage successfully their is a key element in meeting our future team in a way that will inspire them to Attendees staffing requirements.
It helps delegates Over 26,300 GPs, nurses, understand the role and responsibilities of physiotherapists and other healthcare a manager, as well as their own approach Engaging our people professionals attended these events.
to working with others and leading a team.
When it comes to engagement and communications, our vision is to inspire all During 2016, 96 managers undertook the Spire Healthcare employees through timely, Management Fundamentals programme, informative and compelling communications adding to a growing cohort from so that our people are fully aware and previous years.
motivated to support the strategic direction In 2017, we will be reviewing and refreshing of the Company.
We want colleagues to feel all our leadership training programmes to valued, listened to, and part of the current ensure that our leaders are fit for the future and future success of our business.
During 2016, we took significant steps to bring this ambition to life.
For instance we Caroline Roberts launched the Spire Healthcare discussion Group Human Resources Director channel, a new communication channel 1 March 2017 established to provide colleagues, on a regular basis, with audio updates from our leadership team covering topics which are pertinent to our business: from our strategic direction to operational and people highlights.
In terms of recognising our people, we continue to celebrate the achievements of our colleagues through our annual Inspiring People Awards ceremony, and once again we thanked those people who have reached 21 years with the business at our Long Service lunch.
44 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION LOOKING AFTER YOU Inspiring people The 2016 winner was David Barnes, Concierge at Spire Bristol Hospital.
People Offering a gold-standard concierge service to our patients is vital in driving excellence and growing awards our business, and we know this differentiates us from our competitors.
David makes it his In December, a ceremony mission to bring this to life in every took place for nominees of aspect of his job from meeting and greeting patients to delivering their the Inspiring People award newspapers and offering them a a Group-wide accolade listening ear.
In the most recent patient satisfaction survey, David given to the most deserving had over 200 named compliments Our values team or member of staff about the service he delivers.
that has shown outstanding At the event, Dan Rees Jones, Caring is our passion Hospital Director said, David has commitment and dedication a warm, friendly and attentive throughout the year.
approach, ensuring that each patient Succeeding together receives a personal Spire Healthcare touch at the start of their stay.
He has clearly transformed the admission Driving excellence experience for these patients as exemplified by the comments in our patient satisfaction survey.
Doing the right thing Delivering on our promises David Barnes with wife, Alison, and Hospital Director, Dan Rees Jones.
Keeping it simple LOOKING AFTER YOU The people who make it possible 2016 Employees including bank staff Long-serving people 31 December 2016 % Celebrating over 1,870 years of independent healthcare 19 knowledge and experience A day of celebration was held in late Those recognised included nurses, 11 November to recognise the hard work clinical team leaders, engineering 54 of long-serving members of staff, who and maintenance managers, and between them, have clocked up over administrative colleagues.
All enjoyed 16 1,870 years of service.
a three-course lunch along with personalised gifts to commemorate The event, hosted by Spire Healthcares their 21 years of service.
Executive Team, was held at the Royal Nursing 2,405 Automotive Club in Pall Mall where Peter Corfield, Group Commercial Theatre staff 1,366 89 colleagues from across the hospital Director, said on the day, Its my A llied health professionals 2,025 network were honoured a long-standing pleasure to celebrate the amazing C linical support and admin 6,658 tradition that we have celebrated for contribution you have made to many years.
Spire Healthcare over the years.
T he Group employs bank staff staff who do not Twenty-one years working for one work regularly scheduled hours, but are directly employed by the Group.
organisation, in its many different guises, is an outstanding milestone, especially in an era of job mobility.
Your achievement is what makes Spire such an amazing place to work.
Thank you for your dedication and commitment through the years we really appreciate it.
The long-servers celebrating at the Royal Automotive Club in Pall Mall.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 45
