CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Corporate Responsibility is central to our vision to be a leading sports and lifestyle retailer internationally.
Our established Corporate Responsibility framework focuses on five key areas: People, Health and Safety, the Environment, Customers and the Community.
Sports Direct has developed Key Performance Indicators KPIs to ensure we deliver on our commitments.
These KPIs are discussed further in this Corporate Social Responsibility Report and in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review and the Financial Review, and are based solely on our UK operations, unless expressly stated.
OUR PEOPLE The Group employs and engages over 29,000 people, across various sectors, from Sport, Fashion, Lifestyle, Fitness and Brands, and our people are what makes the Sports Direct Group such a success.
The Board is committed to ensuring that all of our people have the opportunity to be inspired, stimulated, motivated, and empowered.
We believe that it takes every single team member to make a difference and drive performance, and we are committed to the development and rewarding of our people to enable the Group to achieve its future growth plans.
The Groups approach to our people is focused on continual development to nurture our people towards their full potential and to enable our teams to promote from within wherever possible, rewarding our employees and retaining our people and investment in talent.
The Group has several policies and systems in place to ensure staff welfare is monitored and maintained, as illustrated in the diagram below.
In support of these policies and systems, communication with our people occurs via Group news emails, letters and the intranet, as well as through briefings by direct managers and through the Groups training programmes, which have been outlined in further detail in the following sections.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY & DIVERSITY POLICY RIGHT TO A TAILORED EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK TRADE UNION 28 STAFF FORUM ATTRACTION AND RETENTION As a Group, we like to train and retain our staff to ensure that valuable knowledge remains within the Group.
The Group uses a number of incentives to retain our people, including regularly holding employee appraisals, to identify the areas where we, as an employer, can improve.
We find that regular appraisals also highlight the knowledge gaps which our employees have, and allows us to offer staff training which will develop their understanding.
During FY16 22.0% of our UK salaried staff left the Group, an increase from 18.7% in FY15.
We estimate that this figure will reduce during the remaining 2011 Share Scheme vesting period.
Our Share Schemes are utilised to attract, motivate and incentivise our people and potential future employees.
We have found that creating a shared goal has improved employee satisfaction levels.
Store Manager stability with Sports Direct is currently sitting at 80.4%, this is a decrease of 12% on the FY15 figure.
Assistant Manager and Footwear Manager stability currently sit at 79.8% and 83.5% respectively, which is a decrease of 6% and 7% across the positions.
SALARIED STAFF TURNOVER SINCE FY11 FY11 17% FY12 17% FY13 16% FY14 19% FY15 19% FY16 22% PERFORMANCE AND REWARD We reward the hard work of our participating eligible employees with the Share Schemes.
The Share Schemes are dependent on the achievement of pre-determined Underlying EBITDA targets, as well as satisfactory performance of the individual employee.
The targets for the 2011 Share Schemes were: 2012: Underlying EBITDA of 215m - Achieved 2013: Underlying EBITDA of 250m - Achieved 2014: Underlying EBITDA of 260m - Achieved 2015: Underlying EBITDA of 300m - Achieved All four of the 2011 Share Scheme targets have now been achieved.
Under the 2009 Share Scheme c. 27m shares in total vested, and under the 2011 Share Scheme c. 4m vested in FY16, and c. 18m are expected to vest in FY18.
DIVERSITY Diversity within the Group is essential and we believe this plays an important role in a successful business.
At all times we try to ensure that our people meet the diversity, cultures and values of our varied customer base.
Our Board currently has a 14% female representation, with further details being shown on page 43.
Females make up 34% of our senior management team.
While we appreciate that work could be done to ensure that the figure is more balanced, we are satisfied that the team possesses the appropriate balance of skills and knowledge.
As positions become available the necessary level of consideration will be given to ensuring diversity within the team.
Our overall UK workforce base consists of 47% females, proving that discrimination for factors including gender will not be tolerated within the Group.
The law is paramount when we recruit employees and we aim to ensure that both male and female candidates are provided with equal opportunities to apply for and work in all positions across the Group.
A BREAKDOWN OF GENDER DIVERSITY: Male Female Directors 6 1 29 Other senior managers 42 22 All UK workforce 11,924 10,694 TALENT AND CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT In FY15 the Group launched a new competency framework, the Success Factors, to provide the behaviours that lead to great performance in individual job roles within Sports Direct and include the qualities and skills that help people to be successful.
In short, its what our best performers do and how we need to be.
This year we have continued to work on embedding the Success Factors into all of our people practices, including introducing new recruitment tools and providing our store manager population in the UK with competency based interview training.
With the introduction of the Success Factors we have created a structured mechanism of identifying and developing internal talent across the Group to support our future growth plans.
Our teams have a variety of development opportunities and we encourage our people to grow within their current role, take on new challenging tasks, learn from others and support individuals in realising their potential, in addition to providing formal training opportunities.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS: Total workforce total Group : 29,457 Hours invested in training at our Training Centre: c. 60,000 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES The aim of our Training and Development Programmes are to use our expertise and knowledge, as well as our state of the art Sports Direct International Training Centre Training Centre, to provide the opportunity to develop and nurture our people and teams, enabling them to flourish into champions.
We aim to instil the Groups values throughout our programmes, and we help others to identify, aspire and achieve their own unique individual personal potential.
Our goal is to give every member of our team, from all areas of the Group, the opportunity to be inspired, stimulated, motivated, and empowered to grow, making a difference to their performance as well as that of the Group.
We remain focused on the need to proactively develop our teams competence base and leadership capabilities in order to meet the continually changing industry dynamics, towards our goal to become a leading retailer internationally.
During FY16, over 60,000 hours were invested into training and developing our teams at our Training Centre, and we believe this commitment to ensuring our teams have the knowledge they need to perform at the highest level, and is paramount to the continued success of the Group.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Continued We offer a varied portfolio of training courses for our teams, the majority of which are hosted in our own facilities.
The Training and Development Programme portfolio continues to grow, as it has year on year and is facilitated across the following areas: Customer Service Training: E-learning: Home Grown Talent Management Programme: Brand and Product Knowledge: and Management Training.
On-the-job training is still one of our most effective methods, reflecting our continued focus on having the maximum impact with a relatively low operating cost.
The approach taken has been one of raising awareness and insight about individual patterns of learning behaviour, as well as sharing knowledge and best practice.
Informal sessions throughout all stores have also been further strengthened by instant coaching methods being embraced by in-store management teams using the daily team briefs as an opportunity to train our teams every day.
We continue to believe in the integration between coaching, organisational development and performance management to support any new initiative or change to improve business performance.
The Training Centre is a truly unique and state of the art training environment across the industry.
The Training Centre is supported by our brand partners Nike and Puma, who have their own individual environments and this training facility remains the only third party training centre in the world for both Puma and Nike.
The training facilities on the Shirebrook campus feature six specialised training environments incorporating inspiration from the following sports: Running: Football: and Womens training.
Sitting alongside the Training Centre is our 500 seat auditorium, which is utilised throughout the year for many events on the training calendar, as well as local community events.
We continue to have an international approach to training, offering new members of management joining the Sports Direct team from around the world the chance to join us in the Training Centre to learn about the Group, our values, policies, processes and procedures.
30 Teams from Austria, Estonia, Czech Republic, Dubai, Malaysia, France, Portugal, Holland, Cyprus, Switzerland, Kuwait, Belgium, Iceland, Hungary, Slovenia, Slovakia and Poland have all attended.
CUSTOMER SERVICE TRAINING The Customer Service Training Programme continues to look at how we engage, inspire and equip Sports Direct people to serve customers well, and sell more through service.
It is based on the sales through service model, STARS, which is linked to the Groups 5-Star commission scheme for retail staff.
The STARS Programme is based on five key attributes that we encourage staff to embody in approaching customers: Smile Talk Ask Recommend Sale The STARS programme was originally rolled out to all store managers during FY15 through a seminar and supporting documentation, and continues to be used to train and develop new members of our team.
The STARS programme has been supplemented since with the addition of our own E-learning platform.
E-Learning At Sports Direct we understand the importance of staff being engaged with the business, ensuring everyone understands who we are and what we do, so that we can deliver a consistent message to our customers.
Effective induction training is key to this.
Without a proper induction, there is the risk of staff not understanding compliance issues or policies, low productivity and poor motivation, poor customer service and lost sales.
As a result we implemented an interactive induction programme for all staff which creates pride in Sports Direct and offers consistency and structure in foundation training, ensuring we engage new starters and re-energise existing colleagues.
In order to achieve this, the training team commissioned e-learning company Sponge UK to develop an online induction that would complement the existing face-toface training.
It is important for staff to be able to access the learning on the go, so the course was built using Adapt - the new open-source, responsive e-learning framework.
This means that the course will work on tablets and employees smartphones as well as desktop computers.
Its one of the very first Adapt e-learning courses and Sports Direct leads the way with this new innovation in e-learning.
The current modules focus on the five main areas of the Groups induction training: knowledge of the company, sales and service, health and safety including a focus on the Disability Discrimination Act, merchandising principles, and day-to-day operational information.
The platform is aimed at all new, and existing, team members in the UK and we currently have over 19,000 users across the Group.
It is the first in a planned suite of courses that will cover all aspects of the Companys activities, and will continue to grow and evolve as more courses are designed and implemented to help improve our teams knowledge and aid their further development.
HOME GROWN TALENT MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME Our talent management activities are open to the majority of permanent employees, and are focused on those who show potential and ambition.
As in previous years developing high-potential employees and growing future Store Managers Leaders remains one of the Groups key objectives.
We aim to produce a common standard of behaviour across all of our people and our team leaders, in order to strengthen and improve the likelihood of Sports Direct achieving its future goals.
The Home Grown Talent Management Programme is a structured programme and assists the Group to identify and develop talent, as well as continually develop our leaders.
It helps the Group to have the right employee in the right position at the right time and provides the opportunity for talented employees to perform better and progress within Sports Direct.
It also helps retain talented and key employees and reduce staff turnover, as well as recruitment costs.
For leaders, or those who are being promoted into a managerial position, this programme provides training across key areas, including: people management skills, developing staff mentoring skills, business management skills, and training in creativity to improve business performance whilst remaining compliant with the Groups policies and procedures.
Additionally, those aspiring to be leaders, or to lead more challenging functions, are identified and will attend parts of the programme, and once completed, key positions will be offered to enable the employee to flourish and make a difference to the performance of the Group.
In the two and a half years since the programmes inception, it has seen over 300 of our junior managers attend, with 93% of those having been promoted into a senior managerial position.
This is demonstrable of the Groups culture and commitment to developing our existing people.
BRAND AND PRODUCT KNOWLEDGE Brand Training Robust training programmes to inform and train staff on product innovation and brand initiatives are critical to the Group.
Sports Direct works with adidas to provide bespoke training initiatives to support the continued growth of adidas product throughout the business.
In FY16, this partnership grew even more with adidas commissioning a new dedicated training facility to be built alongside their brand showroom at the Groups Shirebrook campus.
This training facility partnership between Sports Direct and adidas will support unique training initiatives and events, in addition to the existing brand events which equip our people with in-depth knowledge on the latest range of products and technologies available.
Sports Direct is a committed user of the Nike SKU Sports Knowledge Underground Training Programme and continues to be one of the front runners in terms of having the greatest proportion of our people who have completed this programme worldwide.
SKU is another 31 e-learning opportunity for the Sports Direct team which allows our employees to gain essential foundation knowledge on Nike products.
This foundation knowledge is then taken one step further through the many Nike training days held at the Training Centre.
The days are hosted by Nike Experts and take the foundation knowledge from SKU to a higher level with interaction and involvement.
Sports Direct also works closely with Puma to compile robust training programmes to support in store initiatives and product launches.
Footwear Masterclass The Group develops and conducts Footwear Masterclasses which are aimed at managers responsible for the footwear department in their store.
The Footwear Masterclass is a three-day residential course and typically covers merchandising, staff efficiency, best practice health and safety, and policies and procedures.
It also covers management style and behaviour to ensure our managers are able to develop themselves, as well as those around them, to become positive role models and influential leaders.
This course has been very successful to date, and has resulted in the creation of a similar course which is able to be offered to those with responsibilities in the footwear department at a more junior level.
Premium Lifestyle The Group works with our Premium Lifestyle teams to offer training initiatives, with the majority having benefitted from training at the Shirebrook campus, focussing on operational excellence as well as merchandising, product and brand training.
The Group is focused on building our specialist training in relation to our lifestyle division in line with the grown and increasing importance of fashion fascias and products.
MANAGEMENT TRAINING Management Induction New members of senior management joining the business and some existing managers attend our four week induction programme at our Shirebrook campus.
The four weeks consists of an initial week at the Training Centre at our Shirebrook campus, combining a mixture of shop floor based training and classroom centred activities.
Typical subjects covered would be merchandising, delivery process, health and safety, shop closedown process, product training, and retail business skills.
It focuses on the basics of the job and the importance of being World Class when they start at their store.
The following two weeks are spent refining and honing their new-found skills in their own store as they begin to settle into the role, putting into practice the skills that have helped Sports Direct establish itself as the largest sporting goods retailer in the UK.
The final week of the induction programme sees the new manager return to the Shirebrook campus for a further week, as we look to develop their knowledge further, going into more advanced merchandising practices as well as focussing on all elements of administration, including rota planning, recruitment and security protocols.
We firmly believe this method of induction gives our new managers the best possible chance of becoming a success within the business, giving them the tools and support they need to hit the ground running and being able to make a positive difference to Sports Direct.
In FY16, 194 new members of senior store management attended the Shirebrook campus for induction training.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Continued Management Re-Fresh Programme Members of the team who need further support and coaching to improve their level of performance in store will attend the Operational and Managerial Refresh Programme.
This is a five-day residential course that consists of shop floor operational training, combined with style and behaviour modules covering communication, leadership and decision making.
This course aims to further the managers operational skills and also improve their ability to successfully lead and manage their team as well.
ANNUAL CONFERENCE Our annual conference offers attendees an opportunity to mix with teams with which they wouldnt ordinarily mix, to learn about the Groups aspirations, and to keep up to date with the latest changes in the Group.
This is a full day event and also has a range of activities tailored to the specific area in which each individual works.
INTEGRATION OF THE GROUPS ACQUISITIONS During FY16 Sports Direct acquired the remainder of Heatons, and similarly with other acquisitions made by the Group historically, the Training and Development team created, implemented and delivered a bespoke training package to the management teams of Heatons stores, to ensure they were able to integrate effectively and adapt to the Groups systems and business model.
This bespoke package focussed on the Management Induction Programme, whilst also being tailored to suit the needs of Heatons, showing the truly flexible approach to the way the Group delivers training.
HEALTH AND SAFETY As the Company continues to grow there has been increased focus on creating a consistent method of implementing health and safety measures and evaluating the Groups health and safety performance.
During FY16, the Group hired a new Head of Health & Safety and the Group set out plans to undertake a full review of its health and safety policies and procedures, and to set relevant KPIs to monitor performance, including improved accident reporting investigation and accident trend analysis.
Overall this year our incident rate has increased which is disappointing, primarily due to the new Fitness division, but the Groups rate of Reporting of Injuries, Disease and Dangerous Occurrences has significantly reduced from 51 in total as at April 2015, to 25 as at April 2016.
These are generally the more serious incidents by nature and are reportable to the local authority.
In relation to the UK workforce we have calculated accident figures per 100,000 hours worked using a 12 month rolling average.
The number of accidents involving the warehouse workforce as at April 2016 was 6.6 compared to 5.9 at April 2015.
Accidents and incidents involving stillages and cages are the most frequent type of incident, with promotion events leading to congestion in particular areas in the warehouse.
This is an issue the Group is working to address.
During the year we also added over 1,000 more workers in the warehouse, which put a strain on existing health and safety procedures and the Health & Safety team are working to improve the Groups health and safety standards and performance.
32 Following the same calculation method, the number of accidents involving the store, office and distribution workforce in the UK increased to 2.7 as at April 2016 compared with 2.5 as at April 2015, which was exacerbated by growth in the Groups store portfolio and employees.
With respect to these areas, the Health & Safety team are working on enhancing the Groups health and safety guidance in training and education packs, including in the Management Induction and Refresher Training Programmes.
These will help to raise general safety awareness and also target specific areas where injuries tend to occur, such as manual handling, and use of step ladders.
In relation to the general public we have calculated the number of accidents per 10m store turnover using a 12 month rolling average.
The number of accidents involving the general public increased over the course of the year and was 4.8 as at April 2016, compared to 3.9 in April 2015.
This is primarily due to the new Fitness division and the higher injury risks associated with this industry.
With the enhancements to the training and education packs for staff, we also hope to improve on this figure in the future.
Over the course of the year there were no environmental prosecutions or work-related fatalities.
MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 The Company is investigating its supply chain practices in light of the enactment of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
In accordance with the Act, a statement, approved by the Board, detailing steps taken during the year to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in any of our supply chains or in any part of the business will be published on our website within the next few months.
CUSTOMERS Customer service is at the forefront of our business.
We aim to provide customers with an enjoyable experience both in-store and on-line and ensure all our products are safe and fit for purpose.
Monitoring customer satisfaction and responding to queries is a continuous process.
All written complaints are recorded, including an analysis of the nature of the complaint so that trends can be assessed and appropriate action taken.
We have an online customer contact form that reduces the time it takes for our customers to contact us.
Online communication has reduced the amount of time it takes for us to respond to queries thereby increasing our service levels, whilst reducing the print and postage costs for both the Group and customers.
We are continuously working to improve customer service at all levels within the Group from the retail stores, Head Office and our website.
COMMUNITY Supply Chain We are committed to responsible business practices in our own business and within our supply chain.
We continue to procure goods from suppliers who have proved to uphold ethical employment and trading practices, and we have a strict Code of Conduct that we require every supplier to adhere to.
The Code of Conduct provides for the fair treatment of workers, ensuring a safe environment in accordance with the local and national laws and that workers are treated with respect and paid fairly for what they do.
The Code of Conduct also prohibits child labour and the use of illegal means or materials in the production of goods.
We have longstanding relationships with our suppliers who have demonstrated that their work practices are consistent with Sports Directs standards.
Approximately 40% of our current suppliers have been working with the Company for 10 years or more.
We have worked with two leading supply chain companies in Singapore and South Korea for a number of years.
Using their local knowledge and experience helps benefit the business and the communities in which they operate.
Both supply chain businesses have the highest social and business ethics code which aligns with our own Code of Conduct, the BSCI Code of Conduct which is based upon the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the Social Accountability 8000 SA8000 Code.
Sports Direct relies on both supply chain companies to inspect the premises of all suppliers and manufacturers.
Frequent inspections are carried out randomly to ensure that goods meet our quality standards as well as assessing continued compliance with SA8000 and our Code of Conduct.
We cease immediately to work with suppliers who do not meet our criteria.
We comply with an internationally recognised list of chemicals that are banned for use in fabrics.
Both supply chain companies conduct random tests on fabric which are then taken to a recognised laboratory for quality testing and to ensure that banned chemicals are not being used.
Community Involvement The Group engages at various levels with the local communities in which we operate, and in relation to our Shirebrook campus we continue to actively work with Shirebrook Forward NG20 working group, which aims to help Shirebrook retain its breadth of services, local support functions and community spirit.
CHARITY Sport is the Groups passion.
We believe that everyone should have a chance to participate in sports and enjoy the health and lifestyle benefits it brings, and to work towards achieving this we provide a wide range of equipment and clothing to promote sports participation amongst people of all abilities, including those who would not normally have access to equipment and facilities.
Our charitable programme is compiled each year through various levels of the Group, reaching out to local organisations, as well as responding to direct enquiries from organisations and causes globally.
This year, Sports Direct has engaged with a number of organisations, and each initiative has been 33 outlined below.
Shirebrook Academy: Sports Direct provided the local school to our National Distribution Centre, Shirebrook Academy, with a significant range of sports equipment to be used by their P. E department.
In addition to this, Sports Direct has provided equipment and vouchers to 30 students in order to provide them with equipment to be used on an upcoming school trip to Namibia.
Willow Tree Family Farm: Sports Direct provided a local farm with a table tennis table, pool table, basketball hoops, cricket set, footballs, basketballs and other sports equipment for use in their educational barn for children.
Shirebrook Town Council: Sports Direct provided sporting equipment and medals to Shirebrook Town Council for a sports events at the Kissingate Leisure Centre, as well as for prizes at their Easter event.
Local recruitment initiatives: In July 2015, Sports Direct contacted the Shirebrook job centre and offered warehouse operative roles working with either Transline or The Best Connection to all unemployed residents.
Since July 2015, the company has been on Shirebrook Market Square five times to provide residents with the opportunity to gain employment.
We have also been to Bolsover Market Square and reinstated employment workshops through the local job centre.
Inspire & Achieve Foundation: Sports Direct are proud to have donated footballs, boxing equipment, tennis rackets and balls to the Inspire & Achieve Foundation, a great project which inspires young people in Mansfield and Ashfield to work towards a positive future by providing them with the support they need.
Operation Christmas Child: Otherwise known as The Shoebox Appeal, this charity is run by Samaritans Purse UK and involves filling shoeboxes with gifts to send out to less fortunate children across the world.
Sports Direct contacted 11 local schools who all agreed to participate, and the Company donated its logistics network to support the appeal.
Sports Direct delivered all the information required to the schools, collected 459 shoeboxes on behalf of the charity, and covered the 3.00 fee for every single box collected.
Helping The Homeless: Sports Direct provided this great charity with tents, sleeping bags, roll mats, stoves, torches, and other camping equipment to support them with helping the homeless in Mansfield and the surrounding areas.
In addition to this, Sports Direct staff at the Head Office also donated food parcels to the charity.
The same support was also given to the Mansfield soup kitchen to assist their efforts in helping the homeless community in Mansfield.
The Group Brands also supported local communities and causes in various ways, and we have outlined some of the special initiatives which the Group Brands took part in this year below.
Karrimor: Karrimor has been proud to support this years Sport Relief in the form of Jo Brands Hell of a Walk of 150 miles, from Hull to Liverpool, in just seven days.
Karrimor provided jackets to Jo and her entire crew for the challenge, which ultimately raised over 1m.
Dunlop: Dunlop works together with its sponsored professional golfers Lee Westwood and Darren Clarke to supply clothing to their golf schools.
These are junior player development schemes which provide qualified coaching and mentoring to youngsters.
Over 40,000 worth of clothing has been provided through sponsorship to the schemes so far.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Continued Lonsdale: Lonsdale is the Official Equipment and Fight Sports Apparel Supplier for the RAF and the Royal Navy.
We are the proud sponsor of the RAF annual Novice Championships, The Lord Wakefields.
Everlast: Everlast supports a variety of organisations throughout the year, including both sports-oriented and charitable programmes.
A long-standing supporter of the most prestigious amateur boxing competition in the US, the New York Golden Gloves, Everlast is the official fight glove and apparel sponsor.
The organisation celebrated its 89th year in April 2016.
Since 2006, Everlast has also served as a proud supporter of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation BCRF.
Each year, Everlast donates a portion of the sale proceeds from selected pink products to help the foundation provide funding for clinical and genetic research.
Last year, Everlast donated US $61,433.50 to BCRFs research efforts to find a cure.
Everlast provides support to the Dr. Theodore A. Atlas Foundation, a non-profit organisation providing financial assistance to individuals and programs in need with a focus on youth.
In 2015, Everlast provided US $6,500 to assist their youth programming.
Antigua Group: Antigua supported a wide variety of sports related and charity related events throughout the year.
These include The Phoenix Childrens Hospital Annual Golf Classic, The Scottsdale Charros Foundation, The Jerry Colangelo Prostate Cancer Event and The Salvation Army.
Antigua is also heavily involved in the promotion of Junior Golf in Arizona and around the USA.
Antigua has sponsored The Antigua Junior Tour in partnership with the SWSPGA for over 20 years and also supports Girls Golf, The First Tee and The Junior Golf Association of Arizona.
In recent years, Antigua has helped to create the Antigua National High School Golf Invitational which invites teams from all over the United States to participate.
Sondico: This year, Sondico proudly supported grassroots football by donating 10,000 worth of kit to local Junior Football Club, Shirebrook Rangers.
ENVIRONMENT We recognise that we have a responsibility to manage the impact our business has on the environment, and we are committed to reducing this both now and in the future.
We continue to comply with the Governments Carbon Reduction Commitment, and have identified key areas where we can make a difference, in particular energy usage in our stores, transport and waste management.
We are continuously aiming to reduce our carbon footprint.
The single most significant element is electricity, which makes up 84% of the footprint.
The carbon footprint spread across all UK sites is detailed in the chart opposite.
34 CARBON FOOTPRINT ANALYSIS 1 APRIL 2015 - 31 MARCH 2016 The growth of our Company has increased the number of our stores and therefore the absolute GHG emissions.
Our chosen intensity ratio of electricity-related emissions per m revenue has increased by 1.4%: which is a result of a larger increase in square footage of stores than the increase in sales, driven by the strategy to move to larger stores.
Electricity 81% Diesel 12% Other 7% GREENHOUSE GAS GHG EMISSIONS REPORTING Reporting period 1 1 April 2015 - 31 March 2016 Baseline year 2 FY15 Consolidation approach Operational control All UK entities and facilities either owned or under operational control were included.
Emissions Boundary summary from air conditioning and refrigeration units are excluded due to the cost of data collection.
These are expected to be a negligible % of scope 1 emissions.
Consistency with Financial Other than the emissions declared for the period 1 April 2015 31 March 2016 to be in line with the Statements CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, there are no inconsistencies with Financial Statements.
Emission factor data source DEFRA MAY 2013 The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1 2006.
We have used the 2014 UK Governments Assessment methodology GHG conversion factors.
Materiality was set at Group level at 5%, with all UK facilities estimated to contribute 0.5% of total Materiality threshold emissions included Intensity ratio Emissions per m revenue 1 The emissions declared are for the period 1 April 2015 31 March 2016 to be in line with the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
2 As we have full comparative information for all energy sources for the Group, we have set the baseline year as 2015.
Scope 1 GHG emissions are calculated based on the purchased quantities of commercial fuels using published emission factors.
Scope 2 GHG emissions are primarily calculated from metered electricity consumption and published emission factors.
CO2 equivalent CO2e factors are used which ensures we have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006.
Year 2016 2015 Scope 1 CO2e emissions 15,571 14,129 Scope 2 CO2e emissions 120,102 116,335 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions Tonnes 135,674 130,464 CO2e Emissions Tonnes m 46.7 42.3 CO2e Emissions vs Turnover Index 2015: 100 101.4 100.0 WASTE REDUCTION We are actively reducing the amount of waste we send to landfill and segregate waste to ensure that we recycle as much as possible.
THIS YEAR WE RECYCLED: 5,679 units of electrical equipment 2015: 6,127 units 76 tonnes of waste paper 2015: 94 tonnes 10,000 tonnes of cardboard 2015: 9,526 tonnes 308 tonnes of metal 2015: 235 tonnes 710 tonnes of plastic 2015: 618 tonnes All stores now use biodegradable carrier bags and provide the option of a bag for life.
This is actively promoted in-store through high levels of staff engagement.
35 Looking ahead, we will continue our commitment to minimise waste and improve energy efficiency across our stores.
Dave Forsey Chief Executive 7 July 2016
