Strategic Report Sustainability Report ENGINEERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE BY MANAGING OUR SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS We are committed to improving the sustainability of our operations and assisting our customers to do the same.
Nicholas Anderson, Group Chief Executive Sustainability is one of the six key strategic priorities through which we are driving growth and achieving shareholder value.
Our sustainability vision: Managing sustainability To engineer a more sustainable future.
We have a well-defined management structure to help us achieve our sustainability objectives.
Our sustainability mission: Supported by We will operate sustainably through responsibly managing our: Group Chief Executive business for on-going financial success: Responsible for the Group Board of Directors sustainability strategy operations in accordance with laws and regulations: social and environmental impacts: ethical and social responsibilities: and Sustainability Committee Senior Managers Divisional Director, Spirax Sarco customer and supplier relationships, to improve the sustainability Americas: Group Supply Chain Director: Group EHS oftheir operations.
Executive: WMFTG Supply Chain Director oversee We commit to engineering a sustainable future by focusing on five strategy implementation and review progress against strategic objectives core areas: our workplaces, our supply chain, our environment, our customers and our communities, setting objectives and targets in each area.
Our sustainability strategy: 2016 update Divisional Directors, During 2016 we created a Group Sustainability Policy which was Sustainability Regional and General formally approved, translated into 14 languages, disseminated across strategy sponsors Managers the Group and made available on a new sustainability intranet site, Senior managers Ensure the Groups which can be accessed by all employees.
allocated to each sustainability policies are sustainability objective upheld and implemented by Our 10 sustainability project teams worked with their topic sponsors our operating companies to establish a five-year plan for each sustainability objective and commenced implementation of their plans.
A newly established Sustainability Committee met every two months to review and oversee progress.
Sustainability strategy project The sustainability strategy was rolled out across the Group, using leaders and teams briefing packs and a sustainability animation, translated into the Establish strategic priorities, with sponsors, and oversee Groups core languages.
A communication plan is in place for 2017 strategic implementation to continue to raise awareness of the sustainability programme: all employees will be required to complete a sustainability e-learning module during 2017.
Employees and organised employee groups Oversee, record and report on strategic implementation andperformance within their local workplaces Environmental, Health and Safety 52 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Sustainability objectives 1.
Our workplaces To achieve health and safety H&S excellence through engagement, Engineering for empowerment and fostering good behaviours, while targeting excellence zero accidents.
To promote diversity and equality through employment practices that are free from discrimination and in accordance with international human rights principles.
To act in accordance with our Core Values, upholding a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
To invest in developing the knowledge and skills of our people.
Our supply chain To focus on continuous improvement in our supply chain with Engineering the particular emphasis on sustainability.
responsible way To incorporate sustainability factors into our product design process, including energy efficiency, emissions, serviceability, recyclability and the availability of compliant and ethically sourced materials.
Our environment To limit the environmental impacts of our operations through reducing Engineering for water use and minimising and managing effluent and waste.
our planet To minimise the environmental impacts of our operations by managing energy consumption with the aim of reducing carbon emissions.
Our customers To provide products and services that improve the sustainability Engineering of our customers operations through helping them reduce their sustainable environmental impacts, improve plant efficiency and productivity, solutions and maintain product quality.
Our communities To engage positively with the communities in which we operate and Engineering to offer financial support to approved charities.
better futures Sustainability spotlight: achievements in 2016 Spirax Sarco China: sustainability award finalist MasoSine: celebrating 17 years without a lost time incident On 28th September 2016, MasoSine, a Watson-Marlow Fluid During 2016 Spirax Sarco Engineering China Ltd was shortlisted Technology Group company that manufactures sinusoidal pumps as a finalist in the Sustainable Business Award category, of the for use in the food industry, celebrated an outstanding record of British Business Awards, organised by the British Chamber 17 years without a lost time incident.
The nomination recognised the companys outstanding commitment to improving its customers This excellent achievement is due to rigorous H&S management sustainability, its support for the education of young engineers including immediate action to address safety concerns, thorough and its drive to continuously improve the sustainability of its root cause analysis of near misses, a well-established H&S culture own operations.
Although narrowly missing out on the top and a focus on continuous improvement.
A detailed annual risk spot, the judges praised Spirax Sarco China for its passion and assessment programme is also undertaken for all employees, commitment to sustainability.
along with quarterly safety committee reviews that include input from an independent EHS consultant.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering is a constituent of the FTSE4Good UK Index FTSE Group confirms that Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent environmental, social and governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practices.
52 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 53 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Engineering for excellence Health & Safety Objective: To achieve health and safety H&S excellence through Target: Zero accidents engagement, empowerment and fostering good behaviours while targeting zero accidents KPI H&S accidents with over 7 days H&S total number of accidents H&S total number of accidents of lost time per 1,000 employees with over seven days of lost time with over three days of lost time 2016 3.4 2016 17 2016 24 3.3 2015 2015 16 2015 24 2014 5.4 2014 26 2014 31 2013 4.4 2013 21 2013 32 5.5 26 32 2012 2012 2012 Includes over seven days of lost-time accidents Overview employees 2015: 25.
During 2016 we completed over 489 internal continuous improvement EHS inspections across our supply sites 2015: 400.
We strive for H&S excellence, protecting the health and well-being of At the end of the year, 11 of our 19 manufacturing sites held OHSAS 18001 employees, contractors and visitors to our sites.
We actively promote a certification and a number of companies are working towards achieving it.
All of strong H&S culture and have a clear H&S management structure.
The Group Chief Executive and Board of Directors oversee our H&S programmes the Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties manufacturing sites have now established a BBS programme, to be fully embedded in 2017 2015: four.
and performance, with H&S a standing item on the agenda of every Board meeting.
All operating units are required to adhere to the Group H&S Policy During 2016 we completed the construction and opening of our new and also operate in line with a more detailed local policy, procedures and manufacturing, office, warehouse and training facility in India, without any management system.
lost-time accidents: MasoSine, a Watson-Marlow company, achieved 17 years without a lost-time incident: and our Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties business manufacturing site in the USA recorded three years 1.86 million man hours without a lost time accident.
Actions taken in 2016 We completed a Group-wide roll-out of a Dont walk by campaign, a hand safety campaign and a safe driving campaign.
We established a Group Driving on Company Business Policy, which was translated into our core Group languages, and rolled out an e-learning safe driving module in the UK.
Rigorous application of best practice standards, We undertook extensive manual handling training and risk assessments, a H&S culture and a focus on leading indicators completed a thorough review of machine guarding and continued the roll-out of our BBS programme across the Steam Specialties businesss supply sites.
are key to keeping our people safe.
Across the Group we established a roof control programme and installed safety equipment to protect maintenance employees and contractors working at Mark Wyatt, height on Company-owned buildings.
Group Environment, Health and Safety Executive We completed an employee H&S survey and a H&S risk heat map exercise, Performance in 2016 with accompanying risk reduction plans, across our Steam Specialties business supply sites.
We established an EHS academy syllabus to ensure consistent During 2016 our over seven day lost-time accident rate was relatively EHS training across the Group and established a Management of Change unchanged at 3.4 accidents per 1,000 employees 2015: 3.3.
We benchmarked Policy, which is being used to identify and evaluate significant changes in our performance against RIDDORs Over 7-day, rate of reported non-fatal activities, processes, facilities and equipment to minimise the potential for harm injury per 100,000 employees, 2013 14-2015 16 in the UK manufacturing to personnel, the environment or the communities in which we work.
Our H&S performance was therefore slightly better than the industry average.
Our total number of accidents resulting in over three days of lost time, which includes over seven day accidents, stayed the same Next steps for 2017 at 24 accidents for 2016.
While we were disappointed not to have reduced our accident rate, we were pleased to maintain the significantly improved Complete implementation of BBS at sites that established the programme performance that we achieved in 2015. during 2016 and roll out BBS across Watson-Marlow supply sites We increased the number of H&S training units delivered to 14,958 Implement risk reduction actions identified by the H&S risk heat map 2015: 10,566.
We have encouraged reporting of employee concerns assessments and the hand safety, working at height and manual through a Dont walk by campaign: 7,845 concerns were raised during handling campaigns 2016 2015: 1,644.
We view this increase as a positive outcome, reflecting the Establish a cross-business internal EHS audit programme success of the campaign and the embedding of behavioural based safety BBS within our supply sites.
A total of 250 near misses were reported during the year, Drive further adoption of the leading indicator programme these were investigated and corrective action taken 2015: 213.
We employ Company-wide implementation of the Driving on Company 32 full time, qualified H&S professionals and additional part-time EHS Business Policy 54 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Engineering for excellence Employment practices Objective: To promote diversity and equality through employment Target: 25% of women on our Board, as opportunities arise practices that are free from discrimination and in accordance with international human rights principles Board gender diversity Senior management gender Total workforce diversity gender diversity Males: 7 Females: 2 Males: 392 Females: 77 Males: 4,243 Females: 1,141 At year end Overview the right of all individuals to lead a dignified life, free from fear and want and free to express independent beliefs, as well as the right of employees to equal By basing our employment practices on our Core Values, in particular the value opportunities, non-discriminatory treatment, a safe working environment and of respect, we make fair and equitable employment decisions.
We believe that a fair wage.
We do not use forced, compulsory or child labour either directly or diversity of culture, gender, age, experience and expertise enhance our ability to within our supply chain: we respect the rights of children: maintain workplaces operate effectively and ethically, increasing the sustainability of our business.
free of victimisation, harassment or bullying: and accept the rights of employees We have policies and commitments about the way that we treat people, to association and collective bargaining.
including the Group Management Code, Group Human Rights Policy, Modern We communicate regularly with employees through a variety of channels, to Slavery Act Statement, and local HR policies.
Since 2011 we have used a ensure that they have a wide understanding of the operations and performance global grading system to provide transparency within the organisation around of the Group, as well as being engaged in the business locally.
We undertake promotion and remuneration packages and to help facilitate the objective confidential employee surveys to assess our performance as an employer and evaluation of roles and performance.
Along with the Group Whistle-Blowing have well-established grievance and whistle-blowing procedures to enable Policy, our HR policies and systems provide a strong framework to protect the employees to raise concerns.
rights of employees and ensure their fair and equitable treatment.
Performance in 2016 During 2016 we appointed Jane Kingston as a Non-Executive Director and are now close to meeting our target of 25% female representation on the Board.
Across the Group, gender diversity remained relatively unchanged with 4,243 males 2015: 3,821 and 1,141 females 2015: 1,040 across the workforce as a whole, and 392 male 2015: 386 and 77 female 2015: 72 seniormanagers.
It is inherently difficult to address a workforce gender imbalance in the short to medium-term as entrenched global gender As an equal opportunities employer, stereotypes result in a shortage of female engineers.
We continue to work hardto address this imbalance through fair and transparent recruitment we value diversity and recognise the strength practices and compensation packages: talent management and succession that this brings to our global business.
planning: seeking to recruit and appoint females into senior management positions within the Group: and through educational outreach programmes Jim Devine, within our communities.
Group Human Resources Director Actions taken in 2016 Applicants and employees are treated equally during recruitment, transfer, During the year, we updated our Group Management Code.
Its application, promotion, training or salary assessment, and we do not discriminate on the and that of other employment practices, was audited through an Internal basis of an individuals sex, marital status, sexual orientation, age, religion, Controls Questionnaire.
In preparation for the implementation of Gender Pay beliefs, pregnancy or maternity, or any other protected characteristic, as Gap Reporting from April 2017, we completed a detailed internal review of our prescribed by law.
systems and processes: established a consistent framework and methodology for recording and reporting on gender pay, based on the Governments draft We are a member of the Business Disability Forum UK and the Employers legislation: identified areas for improvement and updated our systems where Network for Equality & Inclusion UK, give full and fair consideration to necessary: and participated in the legislations national consultation.
applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their abilities and aptitudes, and support the continuing employment of individuals who become disabled during their period of employment with the Company.
Next steps for 2017 Disabled persons are entitled to the same professional development and Implement Gender Pay Gap Reporting within the UK, in accordance opportunities for promotion as other Company employees.
with legislation We support, respect and adhere to the Human Rights principles set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Core Conventions of the On-going assessment of employment practices that support the International Labour Organisation.
Our Group Human Rights Policy recognises Groups inclusion objectives 54 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 55 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Engineering for excellence Engineering for excellence Ethical business practices Training Objective: To act in accordance with our Core Values, upholding a Objective: To invest in developing the knowledge and skills of zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption our people Target: Zero incidents of bribery and corruption Target: 10 days of formal training per customer facing employee KPI Average number of formal training days per customer facing employee 2016 7.7 2015 7.9 2014 7.4 We create a corporate culture that promotes andrewards ethical behaviour.
2013 7.2 5.6 2012 Andy Robson, General Counsel and Company Secretary Overview Overview The Groups Core Values of Respect, Accountability, Passion, Integrity and Developing the knowledge and skills of our people is central to our strategy for Delivery provide the foundation upon which we individually and collectively growth and for the long-term sustainability of our business.
Our Group Management Code outlines the standards that we expect actively encouraged to pursue development opportunities and as they enhance all employees within the Group to meet, including compliance with laws, their knowledge and skills we are better able to deliver value to our customers, regulations and Group policies.
growth that outperforms our markets and shareholder value.
We are committed to conducting business free from bribery and corruption We deliver extensive training of our employees in our 51 training centres located and will not enter into contractual relationships with third parties who are worldwide, and have developed an extensive e-learning library.
Our sales and known to engage in corrupt practices.
Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy service engineers also undergo extensive on-the-job training and mentoring.
is available in all of the Groups core languages, has been disseminated directly to employees and is available on our intranet.
We operate in accordance Performance in 2016 with competition laws and follow international sanctions, embargoes and During 2016 the average number of formal training days per customer facing restrictions.
We do not make political donations.
employee excluding on-the-job training decreased slightly to 7.7 days per Confidential, multi-lingual whistle-blowing facilities are in place and available person 2015: 7.9 days.
This is largely because we have reviewed the way that to all employees globally to facilitate the reporting of suspected breaches of we deliver training within the Group and have increased our focus on on-the-job Company policies or ethical business practices.
training and personal mentoring of our customer facing employees, which is not reflected in the formal training days metric.
Performance in 2016 A further 15 senior managers attended a two-week Advanced Management During the year, two whistle-blowing calls were made to Safecall our third Programme, run by the Ashridge Business School, taking the total number who party managed, confidential, whistle-blowing helpline.
These reports were have attended to 72 since the programme was launched in 2011.
During 2016, thoroughly investigated and, where required, appropriate action was taken.
95 managers participated in our Advancing High Performance formerly Aspire leadership programme, taking the number who have participated to By the end of 2016, 4,460 employees had completed anti-bribery and 239 since the programme was launched in 2013. corruption training, since its roll-out in 2012 2015: nearly 4,000 and 1,079 employees had completed a biennial anti-bribery and corruption training Actions taken in 2016 refresher course which was launched during 2015 2015: 400.
We completed a nine-month pilot of Initiating High Performance, a new Actions taken in 2016 leadership development programme.
Following the successful pilot, the programme was officially launched and the first cohort of 12 team leaders During 2016 we established divisional ethics officers, to act as another point began the programme in September.
We also established a syllabus and of contact for employees and with responsibility for overseeing the ethical completed a pilot for a Developing High Performance leadership programme.
We also formally recognised the Risk Management Committee as the Groups Ethics Overview Committee.
The Group Supply We opened three new Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties business training Chain and Group Legal departments implemented the Supplier Sustainability facilities, in India, Vietnam and the Philippines.
Code, which obliges our suppliers to comply with the UK Modern Slavery Act, The Spirax Sarco Academy, which has an independent budget and leadership international conflict mineral and anti-bribery and corruption legislation and best team, was established in 2016, to oversee the learning and development practice.
We also undertook the translation of our Core Values into all of the programmes of the Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties business.
For more Groups main languages.
Next steps for 2017 Next steps for 2017 Complete the roll-out of our biennial anti-bribery and corruption training Continue to develop the Spirax Sarco Academys training programmes refresher course across the Group Review and update training metrics and target to reflect changes to our Ensure that employees are properly using the online Global Gifts and training approach Hospitality register 56 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Engineering the responsible way End-to-end supply chain Objective: To focus on continuous improvement in our supply 2016 Target: 90%, by spend, of Group direct suppliers to have chainwith particular emphasis on sustainability signed our Supplier Sustainability Code by the end of 2016 Target exceeded 2017 Target: 90% of sales company direct suppliers to have signed our Supplier Sustainability Code by the end of 2017 Excludes suppliers of businesses acquired in 2016.
Individual roll-out programmes are being prepared for these businesses.
Overview Modern Slavery Act statement Our supply chain encompasses all the activities that transport and transform raw materials and components into finished products and their delivery to the Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc prides itself on setting high standards for customer.
Improving the sustainability, efficiency and effectiveness of our endsustainable and ethical business practices in its operations worldwide.
to-end supply chain is a key strategic objective for the Group.
Included in those high standards is a commitment to respecting and protecting the human rights of all individuals and combating all forms We pursue a regional manufacturing strategy, operating globally across of modern slavery or human trafficking in all parts of our business 19 manufacturing sites.
By manufacturing close to the point of sale we improve organisation, including our supply chain.
We are continuously developing customer service by reducing lead times, ensure that our products meet local and improving our business practices and policies in line with that specifications, reduce transportation requirements for finished products and commitment.
We support a strong, collective stand to identify, prevent provide local employment in the regions in which we operate.
and raise awareness of modern slavery and human trafficking practices in Our Supplier Sustainability Code Code is a central component of our supply all parts of the world.
The Code outlines the expectations that we To read the statement in full, please visit the Groups website: have for suppliers, particularly in relation to the fair treatment of employees and www.
aspx their environmental impacts, and enables us to embed sustainability criteria into our purchasing processes.
The Supplier Sustainability Code specifies that our suppliers must not Performance in 2016 use forced, bonded or non-voluntary labour: should establish recognised We exceeded our phase 1 target of 90%, by spend, of Group direct suppliers employment relationships in accordance with national laws, including nonto have signed our Supplier Sustainability Code by the end of 2016.
By the end discriminatory employment practices, maximum working hours and the of the year approximately 98% by spend of direct material suppliers had signed freedom of association: and exercise clarity in relation to wages.
Having achieved our phase 1 target, we established a phase 2 target and commenced rolling out the Code to suppliers of our sales companies.
Actions taken in 2016 During 2016 we established a Group-wide supplier classification, which uses a risk-based methodology to determine which suppliers are required to receive the Code.
In countries and for specific commodities deemed to be high risk, all suppliers are required to sign.
We also translated the Code, making it available in the Groups 15 core languages.
By striving for excellence in our supply chain, the rigorous We completed the phase 1 roll-out of the Code to over 1,500 direct material suppliers of the Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties business and Watsonapplication of our Supplier Sustainability Code and our Marlows manufacturing sites.
Supplier development engineers are working supplier development activities, we drive continuous with suppliers on a continuous improvement basis to further develop their capabilities.
We have also exited a small number of suppliers who we felt were improvement in operational sustainability.
unable to meet our requirements.
Ian Farnworth, We prepared for the commencement of the phase 2 roll-out by identifying Group Supply Chain Director approximately 500 suppliers of our Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow sales companies that will be required to sign the Code.
We require suppliers to ensure that their activities are safe for the health of To monitor and audit compliance with the Code, we enhanced our existing their employees, their contractors, the local community and the users of their supplier audit programme and undertook on-site and desktop supplier audits.
Suppliers must have an appropriate H&S policy, H&S operating and We have made good progress in the execution of our operational excellence management systems and take proactive steps to prevent work-related injuries programme and are on plan to achieve our cost-reduction targets.
and illnesses, through identifying, evaluating and mitigating risks.
We progressed our Group and regional sourcing programmes to improve Suppliers facilities must be constructed and maintained to an acceptable supply chain efficiency, reduce costs and improve customer service.
standard and suppliers must avoid the use of substances dangerous to their During 2016 we established a Steam Specialties business-wide sourcing employees health and safety: including, but not limited to, carcinogenic, excellence KPI to enable us to better monitor supply chain performance.
mutagenic and toxic to reproduction substances.
All products and services delivered by suppliers must meet the quality and safety standards required by applicable laws.
We expect our suppliers to act ethically, operate within the laws of their country, Next steps for 2017 conduct business free from bribery or corruption, and adhere to the UN Phase 2 roll-out of the Supplier Sustainability Code to sales company Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Core Conventions direct suppliers of the International Labour Organisation.
We do not countenance the use of Continue to execute our operational excellence programme child labour.
Enhance sustainability and environmental monitoring within our Lastly, our suppliers are expected to take steps to mitigate their environmental supplier audits impacts, deliver a high product quality and source responsibly.
56 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 57 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Engineering the responsible Engineering for our planet way Product responsibility Water and waste Objective: To incorporate sustainability factors into our product Objective: To limit the environmental impacts of our operations design process, including energy efficiency, emissions, through reducing water use and minimising and managing serviceability, recyclability and the availability of compliant effluent and waste and ethically sourced materials 2016 Target: All operating companies to achieve or be working towards Target: Continuing compliance with all applicable EHS standards, ISO 14001: 2004 by the end of 2016 while meeting customer expectations of performance 2017 Target: To achieve a year-on-year reduction in our water usage and cost and waste creation intensity Excludes recent acquisitions and new start-ups, which are to achieve ISO 14001: 2004 within an agreed timeframe Employees working in operations with ISO 14001 % 2016 80 Delivering safe, responsibly designed and 2015 76 ethicallyproduced products to market is 2014 73  sustainability.
66 2013 Stephen Dewfall, 59 2012 Group R&D Manager Steam Specialties Overview Managing the environmental impacts of our products, ensuring that they are Overview safe for our customers to use and are manufactured using ethically sourced We take steps to manage and reduce water use across our businesses, for materials, begins with robust product development processes.
Our R&D example, utilising rainwater harvesting and grey water for irrigation purposes processes incorporate best practice in the areas of  and across a number of our manufacturing sites.
Across the Group we use compliance with safety and environmental standards.
dedicated contractors to manage waste and recycling schemes are in place We apply eco-design principles: avoid the use of hazardous materials: consider across the Group.
Wherever possible we seek to avoid generating waste, for ourselves and our customers by, for example, reducing the quantity of the availability of raw materials: and place strong emphasis on in-service packaging used, utilising sustainably sourced and recyclable packaging performance, product life and continuous improvement.
materials where possible and encouraging employees to use, store and share All products and product developments undergo assessment and validation documents electronically, rather than printing them.
by analysis or physical testing, in line with legislation and national standards relevant to the location of sale or release.
Structured internal compliance Performance in 2016 processes exist to enable the identification of regulatory requirements and By the end of 2016, 80% of our employees were working in operations covered compilation of supporting evidence.
Where applicable, third party validation by the environmental management standard ISO 14001, with over 90% of testing is employed.
Central policies exist to ensure responsibilities for product employees working in operations that have or are currently working towards safety and compliance are clear and understood.
During 2016, five operating units achieved this standard for the Our products are sold with Installation and Maintenance Instructions, ensuring first time and a further 13 companies were working towards certification.
that they can be safely installed and maintained.
Companies that were not working towards certification by the end of 2016 were generally either newly purchased or established, or small operations Performance in 2016 where the resource required to achieve certification relative to the size of the Innovation is at the heart of the design process as we continue to drive businessis prohibitive.
improvements in product safety, performance and compliance.
We implement best practice design and manufacture products sustainably, supporting end Actions taken in 2016 users to reduce their environmental impacts and meet their sustainability goals.
We established quarterly data collection for water and waste across our global operations, with reduction targets established.
We have undertaken a review of Actions taken in 2016 our waste contractors capabilities, with the intention of establishing a GroupDuring 2016 we completed a best practice review of our current design wide framework for approving our waste contractors vendors.
The review demonstrated that we have strong project global EHS conference, we completed an EHS treasure hunt across our UK management and compliance processes that support our goals for product Steam Specialties business manufacturing facility, with participation by all of the responsibility and sustainability.
We also undertook a product responsibility attending EHS leaders.
A treasure hunt process and checklist was established competitor assessment.
and EHS leaders were asked to complete these in their own operations in 2016 We continued to embed sustainability criteria within our quality management and repeat the exercise annually thereafter.
system to ensure that progress against our targets is measured.
Next steps for 2017 Next steps for 2017 Secure management approval for new water and waste reduction Establish an auditable process to link supply chain targets and publicise these internally and externally sustainability processes to our eco-design and new product Externally verify and report Group water and waste data development processes.
Establish a campaign to promote waste reduction across the Group 58 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Engineering for our planet Energy and carbon Objective: To minimise the environmental impacts of our Target: To achieve a year-on-year reduction in our energy operationsby managing energy consumption consumption and CO e emissions intensity 2 withtheaimof reducing carbon emissions Greenhouse gas emissions inventory CO e intensity tonnes per m Total Group CO e emissions 2 2 of ination adjusted sales, scope 1 and 2 tonnes at constant currency 4% 2016 40.5 2016 30,704 24% Electricity 44% 2015 41.5 2015 30,050 Business travel 2014 47.7 2014 34,431 Natural gas Other 2013 48.7 2013 33,961 28% 42.5 29,266 2012 2012 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 and 2 emissions Overview In accordance with national and international directives, we endeavour to continuously reduce the carbon intensity of our business and implement strategies to minimise our carbon footprint.
We employ an operational control definition to outline our carbon footprint boundary.
Included within that boundary are manufacturing facilities, administrative and sales offices where we have authority to implement our operating policies.
For each of these entities we have measured and reported on our relevant Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
Scope 1 refers to direct As we act to reduce our energy use we are driving emissions from sources owned or controlled by the Company: Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions resulting from the purchase of energy generated off down the emissions intensity of our business.
Excluded from our footprint boundary are entities Stephanie Temme, where we do not have operational control.
Also excluded from the footprint boundary are emission sources from operating Group Energy and Environmental Manager companies established or acquired during 2016.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and Actions taken in 2016 emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2016 to calculate our total CO e emissions figures.
During 2016 we established energy champions and smart energy metering 2 across a number of our manufacturing sites to aid the identification of energy Performance in 2016 saving opportunities.
During the year, Spirax Sarco Italy, Spirax Sarco Portugal, Watson-Marlow MasoSine, Watson-Marlow Alitea, Watson-Marlow USA and Our CO2e 2016 emissions data have been audited by TV UK Ltd, part of TV Watson-Marlow BioPure replaced their traditional lighting with more energy NORD Group, which has provided limited assurance as follows: efficient LED lighting as part of their drive to improve site energy efficiency.
TV UK Ltd is acting as the independent verifier of the carbon footprint of We initiated an EHS treasure hunt programme across our supply sites, with SPIRAX SARCO.
Based on our checks and reviews, taking into consideration treasure hunts conducted across Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties business a materiality level of 10% and a limited level of assurance we have found manufacturing sites during the last quarter of the year, and plan to roll this out no evidence suggesting that the calculated greenhouse gas emissions are across Watson-Marlows supply sites during 2017. materially misstated and, hence, they are not an unreasonable assertion of the greenhouse gas-related data and information.
Spirax Sarco Mexico achieved certification to energy management standard ISO 50001, taking the total number of our sites with the standard to three, and a Further, no facts became evident, which led us to the assumption that the number of our companies were working towards certification.
calculation was not carried out in accordance with the applied international norm for the quantification, monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions A steering team was established to research, shortlist and procure, in 2017, GHG-Protocol.
carbon accounting software, to increase the ease of carbon data validation across the Group.
The emissions for the reporting period 1st January 2016 to 31st December 2016 inclusive are: 17,354 tCO2e for Scope 1 and 13,350 tCO2e for Scope 2.
TV UK Ltd London February 2017 Next steps for 2017 The small increase in total emissions reflects the expansion of our business, EHS treasure hunts to be carried out across Watson-Marlow including the new operations that were acquired or established in 2015 manufacturing sites and be established in the larger sales companies whose emissions were included for the first time in 2016: the new Procure and implement global carbon accounting software manufacturing, office and training facilities in India: and increased production in the UK, set against emissions reductions made elsewhere across the Group All Steam Specialties manufacturing sites to achieve or be working as a result of our energy saving activities.
Our emissions intensity reduced towards achieving energy management standard ISO 50001 by 2% in 2016, giving a 17% reduction in emissions intensity since 2013, our benchmark year.
58 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 59 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Engineering sustainable solutions Customers Objective: To provide products and services that improve the sustainability of our customers operations through helping them reduce their environmental impacts, improve plant efficiency and productivity and maintain product quality Tonnes of CO e emissions our end users saved as a Case study 2 result of purchasing our energy management products During 2016, Dong Energy completed a landmark project to convert its coal fired power station in Studstrup, Denmark, to sustainable biomass.
2016 4.4m Twenty-one Bredel hose pumps from Watson-Marlow have been installed at the site, helping Dong Energy to supply green district heating to 2015 4.4m around 106,000 homes and green electricity, equivalent to the annual consumption of approximately 230,000 homes, to the Danish grid.
2014 4.8m The project is also expected to reduce the plants carbon emissions by 2013 4.6m 310,000 tonnes per year.
To generate green energy, the site combusts sustainably sourced wooden 4.9m 2012 pellets.
When burned the pellets produce alkaline gases.
To counter this a fine coal ash, reclaimed from landfill depositories, is added to the pellets prior to combustion.
Dosing the ash requires pumps that can handle the thick, abrasive slurry produced when the ash is mixed with water.
Bredel peristaltic hose pumps were selected after trials demonstrated their Overview superior ability to overcome the challenges associated with pumping the Helping our customers to reduce their environmental impacts and meet their high density, inhomogeneous and abrasive particles, compared to large sustainability targets through improved plant efficiency, reduced energy, water double-acting hydraulic pumps.
Engineers from Watson-Marlow worked and chemical use and lower generation of waste is central to our business closely with Dong Energy and the site contractor Eurocon to deliver an model and sustainability strategy.
optimised engineered solution to extend hose life, reduce costs and Reducing energy use and CO e emissions is a key sustainability driver for our 2 deliver reliable pumping in this innovative and sustainable energy project.
customers who are seeking to lower costs and increase their environmental sustainability.
We primarily help our end users to reduce their energy consumption and emissions by providing products and services that improve the efficiency of their steam systems and enable them to recover and reuse thermal energy.
In addition, the design and unique action of our pumps can provide significant energy savings over other pump types.
For example, MasoSine pumps from Watson-Marlow are particularly adept at handling viscous fluids which other pumps require large electrical motors to operate, thereby reducing energy consumption.
Our products and services also deliver efficiencies in water use, reducing total site consumption.
For example, our steam products deliver the efficient return of condensate to the boiler feed tank, preventing it from being discharged to the drain: enable the capture and utilisation of flash steam, which would otherwise be lost to atmosphere: and improve the quality of boiler feedwater, reducing the Actions taken in 2016 frequency of boiler blow-down.
The application of Watson-Marlow pumps to our end users processes can also significantly reduce water use.
Within the During 2016 we commenced a trial at a customers paper manufacturing site to evaluate the impact of pump accuracy on CO emissions.
We also commenced mining industry, for example, the installation of a Bredel pump from Watson- 2 Marlow can result in savings of 900,000m of water per year, reducing water a trial of Qdos pumps, from Watson-Marlow, to evaluate the level of chemical consumption by 70% per pump compared with a common centrifugal pump.
savings they achieve over alternative pump types.
Within the Steam Specialties business we strengthened our product management process to incorporate an Performance in 2016 assessment of customer environmental impacts within new product proposals and progressed our approach to measuring the impact of our products on We estimate that a select range of energy management products sold during our end users environmental sustainability.
As part of our focus on thermal 2016 will reduce our end users CO2e emissions by 4.4 million tonnes annually.
energy management solutions, we increased our resources in solutions design, The methodology used to determine these savings has been independently increasing our thermal energy management capabilities and customer offering.
assessed with the assistance of Ricardo-AEA Ltd.
The methodology remains unchanged but is reviewed annually by Ricardo-AEA Ltd taking revised emissions factors into account.
The calculation is based on a selected range Next steps for 2017 of energy saving products for which we can quantify savings with reasonable Complete and evaluate data from the two Watson-Marlow pump trials accuracy.
Many other of our products, such as blowdown heat recovery, Assess the impact of single use systems on energy and water savings FREME, Heat Pipe Heat Exchangers, Thermocompressors, EasiHeat, Vapor in the Biotechnology industry Condensers and Bellows Sealed Valves, will also provide CO e savings but as 2 these are not easily quantifiable they are excluded from our methodology.
Assess the levels of water savings achieved through the use of condensate pumps 60 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Engineering better futures Community engagement Objective: To engage positively with the communities in Target: All operating units to appoint a community engagement which we operate and to offer financial support champion, either individually or in partnership with another toapproved charities operating unit, by the end of 2017 Group Charitable Trust donations 000 Case study Esther Landeros, Community Engagement Champion in Spirax Sarco Mexico, stated, The greatest heritage that you can leave is education.
2016 180.1 Embracing this philosophy, the company makes a significant and transformative difference to the lives of underprivileged studentsin Mexico.
2015 150.8 During 2016, the company donated packets of school equipment, such as 2014 155.1 paper, pens and pencils to children in a rural primary school.
The company also supports students in their immediate community 2013 159.1 where, although less than 100 a semester, school fees are unaffordable 129.5 for the parents of many students at the local state-run Technical High 2012 School.
Unable to pay the school fees, aspiring pupils frequently have to drop out of school to commence working to supplement the family 2012-2015 figures restated income.
Recognising the wasted talent that this represents, employees at Spirax Sarco Mexico sponsor six students, paying their school fees, enabling them to continue in full-time education.
The company further Overview supports the school by providing technical work placements, four hours We seek to have a positive impact in the communities in which we operate, a day, five days a week, within their production department, training through making charitable donations to worthwhile causes and contributing students as Mechanical or Mechatronic Technicians.
When the students time, resources and expertise where there is a local need.
Our Group Charitable graduate, the company hires them, as vacancies arise.
Donations Policy guides our community engagement activities.
Our primary In addition, the company has agreements with a number of Mexican focus is education particularly in the sciences and engineering, but we seek to universities to offer discounted fees to Spirax employees, their children or identify and respond to local needs and will also make donations and organise close family members, to enable them to further their education.
activities in support of the underprivileged young, disadvantaged, disabled and elderly, and contribute to natural disaster relief.
In December 2016, the Mexican Centre for Philanthropy and Alliance for Corporate Social Responsibility recognised Spirax Sarco Mexico Performance in 2016 as a Socially Responsible Company.
The award, one of the most prestigious of its kind in Mexico, was judged on four criteria quality of During 2016 we increased funding to the Spirax Sarco Group Charitable Trust work environment, ethics and values, environmental management and Trust, which made 46 donations, ranging in size from 150 to 20,000, with community engagement and recognises that the company has a proven a total value of 180,150 to a geographically widespread and diverse range of commitment to operating ethically and responsibly.
For example, the Trust donated 4,000 to IT Schools Africa, a local Cheltenham Charity that works with prisons, the unemployed and schools in the UK to refurbish computers, clean them of data and prepare them for shipping to Africa, where the charity delivers IT teaching training and technical support to recipient schools to provide students with access to e-learning.
A further 87,000 was donated to charitable causes by our operating companies during 2016 2015: 58,000.
Actions taken in 2016 During 2016 we reviewed and updated our Group Charitable Donations Policy and disseminated it, along with a Quick Guide to Community Engagement, across the Group.
Our operating units were each encouraged to appoint a community engagement champion, either individually or in conjunction with another Group company.
The primary responsibilities of the champions will include identifying opportunities and organising community engagement activities in their local communities: overseeing data collection: and sharing their community engagement activities.
To date, over 30 champions have been appointed across the Group.
We also established and rolled out a new community engagement data Next steps for 2017 collection framework, and accompanying guidance document, to enable us Commence data collection using the new framework to record and report a greater range of community engagement activities, Appoint community engagement champions across all operating units including employee sponsored volunteering, in-kind giving and financial donations.
Data collection, using the new framework, will commence in 2017.
Establish a Group community engagement award to recognise the Group companies or individuals making an outstanding difference within their local communities 60 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 61
