SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We believe that a commitment to sustainability makes good business sense.
Weaimtoresponsibly manage those environmental and social issues which have beenidentified as material to our business, and to do this in a way which supports theGroups commercial strategy.
Accountability for sustainability is integrated into our management structures, with anamed member of the Executive Committee responsible for each of the four elements of our programme: Marketplace, People, Environment and Community.
The Group Board regularly reviews progress on the implementation of our strategy.
This report provides asummary of our sustainability activity.
More detail, together with relevant policies, isavailable at www.
Marketplace We are committed to providing quality products and services to Sustainable and ethical sourcing our customers, and to ensuring the safety and sustainability of We are committed to ensuring that the products we sell are from those products, and of the supply chain behind them.
sustainably managed sources and that the people producing these goods are fairly treated.
Our customers Customer satisfaction is a priority for our employees and one of our Our responsible sourcing policy defines the standards which we core business values.
We monitor customer feedback via our global expect our purchasing and menu development teams across the digital platform Eat on the Move.
This enables customers to give world to meet when sourcing ingredients.
We train our global feedback via smart phones or other devices to let us see what were purchasing teams on these standards and review their performance doing well and where we can improve.
Animal welfare is a key area of focus for us.
We endorse the Five Freedoms concept proposed by the Farm Animal We regularly review our menus to ensure we are offering our Welfare Council and require that our suppliers meet or exceed customers choice and including healthier options.
We focus on this standard.
We buy eggs which meet or exceed the British Lion SSPs own brands, where we have control over product ranges and Standard requirements and we are working towards a target for all customer messaging.
Low fat and low carbohydrate options are of the whole eggs used within our proprietary brands operating in available on many of our menus around the world.
In the UK, the the UK to be from cage-free sources by 2025.
The majority of the business carried out a review of childrens menus to include more coffees and teas we purchase have been produced in accordance healthy options.
We have introduced superfood salads within our with ethical and sustainable standards, for example, under the casual dining menus, as well as giving customers the opportunity to Fairtrade or Rainforest Alliance certification schemes.
swap for a healthy option for example, swapping chips for salad.
We also review the nutritional properties of the core ingredients we use, for example, in Spain we use low fat spreads, mayonnaise and cheeses as standard in our foodproduction.
We are committed to ensuring the people in our supply chain are fairly treated.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is aligned to the Ethical Trading Initiatives Base Code, outlines the standards we expect our suppliers to work towards.
We train our global purchasing teams on the role they have to play in identifying and addressing any ethical trade concerns within our supply chain.
During the year, we have carried out a review of modern slavery risks within our business and supply chain, updating our due diligence processes as required.
In line with the requirements of the 2015 Modern Slavery Act, we have provided a separate Modern Slavery statement, available at www.
23 STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 People Our employees are core to our business success.
We invest Equal opportunities and diversity in our people to enable them to reach their full potential, We have a comprehensive Equality and Diversity Policy, which as well as providing a positive, non-discriminatory and safe outlines our expectation that all our employees should be treated workingenvironment.
with respect and be able to work in an environment in which they can realise their potential, free of harassment and discrimination in any Employee engagement and recognition form.
We provide training and guidance to all employees to ensure It is important to us that our employees are fully engaged with they understand and comply with this policy.
In addition, we also seek the business strategy and objectives.
We achieve this through a to support minority groups within our business, for example, through regular programme of briefings, huddles, employee conferences SSP Americas partnership with www.
com, which and updates via our enterprise social network, SSP Connections.
has led to a measurable increase in the number of applicants from Employees in the UK have the opportunity to recognise excellent minority groups, particularly at management level.
performance from their colleagues using the Celebrate!
Disabled persons Applications for employment by disabled persons are always Learning and development fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant We continue to grow talent from within through a range of learning concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, and development opportunities.
We offer bespoke learning and every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group development programmes, tailored to meet the needs of individuals, continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy teams and the operating business.
Some of our training programmes of the Group that the training, career development and promotion for Unit Managers and above are aligned to universities in the UK, of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of giving our employees the opportunity to achieve an externally other employees.
recognised qualification at the end of their training.
Employees by gender We also offer a range of apprenticeship qualifications, suitable for our frontline team members and those wishing to develop Male Female their careers into junior managerial roles.
In the UK, eight different Board of Directors 86% 6 14% 1 apprenticeships are offered, and last year, 223 colleagues Senior management 77% 91 23% 23 commenced an apprenticeship and 150 completed their All employees 43% 12,279 57% 15,994 qualification.
There are a further 303 colleagues currently in apprenticeship schemes.
Apprenticeship schemes are also offered in Health and safety other European SSP operations, including Germany andNorway.
We are committed to maintaining high standards of health and safety for our employees and our customers at all times.
All Many country Human Resources teams have partnerships with employees complete regular training on health and safety, and we local organisations to offer career opportunities to people from monitor performance against key safety performance indicators.
In Singapore, we work with the Corporation of Rehabilitative Enterprises and aim to provide permanent employment opportunities to 40 ex-prisoners each year to help Environment them reintegrate into society.
Our Singapore units also provide on the job training for students with disabilities.
At Phoenix Airport, We are working hard to reduce the environmental impacts of our SSP partners with St. Joseph the Worker, a local charity which helps operations, recognising that greater environmental efficiency also homeless people get back into the workforce.
In the majority of our locations, we do not purchase utilities or services ourselves, so we continue to work Our UK business continues to work with the Launch Group to offer with our clients to improve the quality of environmental impact young and disadvantaged people a two week into work programme.
data and look for ways to improve.
The programme was completed by 78 people this year, with 29 offered permanent employment, many of whom are now working Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data towards their apprenticeship qualification.
2015 16 2014 15 Tonnes of Percentage of Tonnes of CO e carbon footprint CO e 2 2 Scope 1 emissions 6,056 7% 6,572 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 2 emissions 80,693 93% 76,069 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Total 86,749 100% 82,641 Intensity measurement Total emissions reported 41.15 45.09 above normalised per grams grams of turnover 24 SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Community Scope and methodology We have reported on all of the emission sources required Our community investment focuses on projects to promote healthy under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and eating.
Our main partnership is with the Childrens Food Trust, a UK Directors Report Regulations 2013.
These sources fall registered charity that aims to improve the food our children eat, within our consolidated financial statements.
This data with funding for its Lets Get Cooking Clubs for teenagers.
covers the continuing activities undertaken by our retailing During 2016, SSP funded the clubs in 10 further education colleges operationsworldwide.
in the Greater London area.
In each college, 16-18 year olds The methodology applied to data gathering and analysis is attended four sessions, learning how to cook simple and healthy consistent with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate meals, how to budget for food, and how to use up leftovers and avoid Accounting and Reporting Standard for Scope 1 and waste.
Following positive feedback from the trial, we are working Scope2 emissions and the DEFRA Environmental Reporting with the SSP Foundation to extend the project to a further Guidelines, including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions 20colleges, with the aim of reaching over 4,000 students over the reportingguidance.
A full documentation of the methodology used, including collection of data from worldwide operations, exclusions of any non-material emission sources, emission factors used andassumptions made is available upon request.
Reducing our carbon footprint The electricity and gas used to power our units continues to make up the largest part of our carbon footprint.
Our energy efficiency initiatives focus on our most energy-intensive units, within the UK and internationally.
LED lighting replacement programmes are being rolled out across our international operations and are helping to reduce emissions as well as operating costs.
Following a successful UK trial, energy efficiency best practice measures are being rolled out to our German Spar and Burger King units, with the potential to reduce energy consumption in a typical unit by around 20%.
We are now looking at opportunities elsewhere Our units support a wide range of local charities, usually nominated in other countries and regions within the Group.
by our colleagues or our clients.
Reducing our waste to landfill This year charity projects have ranged from SSP Spains support Reducing waste is a priority for our business.
Across our global for the Association Against Childhood Cancer, to SSP Americas operations, we have systems in place to recycle packaging and fundraising for a Phoenix childrens hospital.
In the UK, the SSP waste cooking oil.
Another waste reduction initiative has been the Foundation registered charity no.
1163717 is the focus for our introduction of napkin dispensers, delivering more than a 30% fundraising activity.
The Foundation works with partner charities reduction in the number of free napkins given out to customers.
on projects to promote healthy eating and supports  is now being rolled out across our European business.
nominated charities in the communities where SSP operates.
We are working to reduce food waste wherever we can.
This is a Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: complex area but we have a number of trials underway to reduce the amount of food that is thrown away.
We are reviewing the food production processes across our global operations to look at opportunities to reduce waste.
As part of this work, we have been able to align our production to the peaks and Kate Swann troughs of the business.
In the Nordic region, for example, this has Chief Executive Officer enabled us to reduce the amount of sandwiches being wasted by almost 30%.
Where possible, SSP units partner with local charities 28 November 2016 to donate unsold food.
In Hong Kong, over a tonne of food was donated to the Food Angel charity in the last year, and, in France, unsold food is donated to the Restos du Coeur charity.
