Directors Report Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee SHEAC Report Dear Shareholder, The SHEAC advises the Board on On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present this report which explains the role, composition safety, health and environmental and activities of the SHEAC during the year.
matters including policy, targets We operate in a hazardous industry with inherent risks relating to safety, health and the and strategy.
Im pleased to report that SSEs SHE performance in 2015 16 has continued to be strong, but we always want to do better.
Our first priority in everything that we do is to prevent harm to employees, contractors, customers and the environment.
Our seven enduring goals which are set out in the report that follows help focus attention on the unique challenges facing each of the business areas.
It is through these goals and a culture where colleagues look out for each other that we strive to minimise risks to ourselves, those who work for us, the public and our environment.
This year, the SHEAC visited SSEs new gas fired power station in Ireland which became operational in 2015.
It provided an excellent opportunity to meet with employees and gain a deeper understanding and appreciation of the SHE related challenges affecting the Wholesale business now and over the coming years.
The opportunity to spend time with employees and hold a meeting on-site was very well received by the SHEAC and will be repeated in 2016 17.
Jeremy Beeton CB Chairman of the SHEAC Role The role of the SHEAC is to advise the Board on safety, health and environmental matters.
It provides a leadership forum for non-Executive Directors to work with senior management and Members and meetings shape policy, targets and strategy to improve Independent safety, health and environmental performance.
non-Executive Attended Members Director Member since scheduled The SHEAC is responsible for: Jeremy Beeton Yes July 2011 3 3 - ensuring adherence to SSEs safety, Sue Bruce Yes September 2013 3 3 health and environmental policies: 1 Helen Mahy Yes March 2016 1 1 - setting Group targets and strategy for improved performance: Jim McPhillimy No November 2008 3 3 - monitoring Group performance against Mark Patterson No January 2013 3 3 these targets: - enhancing the awareness and the Paul Smith No November 2008 3 3 importance of safety, health and environmental management and ensuring consistent performance: and - making recommendations to the Board where action or improvement is needed.
Composition Members of the SHEAC are appointed by the Board following recommendation by the Nomination Committee.
The membership of the SHEAC is set out in the table opposite.
Jeremy Beeton brings a depth of experience from his background in engineering and major Safety and the Seven Enduring Goals construction projects.
Sue Bruce provides SSEs first priority in everything it does it to prevent harm to people or valuable insights from various senior roles in the public sector.
Helen Mahy joined the SHEAC on places.
In support of that, SSEs first core value is Safety we believe all 1 March 2016 and brings a wealth of knowledge accidents are preventable, so we do everything safely and responsibly from her career in the energy industry.
Due to the diversity of operations across SSEs businesses, McPhillimy, Mark Patterson and Paul Smith bring the Safety value is supported by Seven Enduring Goals which provides substantial operational experience to the SHEAC a framework for each business to focus attention on its unique safety, through their roles and responsibilities within SSE.
The Chief Executive regularly attends meetings health and environment challenges.
and during the year the Audit Committee Chairman attended the meeting held at the Being our brothers keeper with Safety gas fired power station in Ireland.
The Deputy 1 everyone working to high standards.
Family Company Secretary is Secretary to the SHEAC.
Meetings and activities in 2015 16 Creating a company of lower Driving The SHEAC met three times during the year 2 risk drivers.
and details of attendance are set out in the table opposite.
Meetings are routinely held on the same day as Board meetings and the SHEAC Managing our assets well and Process Chairman reports to the Board after each meeting.
Safety The work of the SHEAC is underpinned by the Safety Value and is designed around the Seven Partnering with contractors to be Contractor 4 Enduring Goals.
At each meeting, the SHEAC best in class on safety, keeping Safety reviews: performance: incidents and trends: them as safe as SSE colleagues.
Examples Protecting our teams health of matters considered by the SHEAC during Occupational 5 and promoting their wellbeing.
the year include: Health and Well-being - Deep dives into the SHE risks facing each of the main business areas.
Protecting the environment and Environment - Project Drive which sets out a framework 6 operating in a sustainable way.
to lower the risks relating to driving.
- Organisation redesign to enhance the management of SHE matters throughout SSE.
Staying well prepared and Crisis - Emerging SHE risks arising from the next 7 responding brilliantly when Management stage of the capital investment programme things go wrong.
and the decommissioning of assets such as the Ferrybridge coal fired power station.
In addition, an important aspect of the work of the SHEAC is to gain a deep understanding of the safety, health and environmental challenges affecting SSEs businesses.
During the year, members of the SHEAC visited various operational sites throughout the UK and Ireland and met front-line management teams.
Members of the SHEAC routinely provide feedback at the annual SHE Conferences which are held at locations across the Group.
Further information relating to safety, health and environment performance during 2015 16 and priorities for 2016 17 is contained on pages 1 to 65.
