Strategic Report Embedding responsibility Responsible member of society Sharing the value that SSE creates SSEs purpose within the societies in which it provides the energy people need is deeply interconnected.
It contributes to society by fulfilling its core purpose of providing reliable and sustainable energy but equally it relies on society to enable it to do those things.
SSE therefore seeks to be a responsible member of society by respecting those connections and seeking to share value with the societies in which it operates.
Providing public services Paying a fair share of tax SSE depends on society to provide strong public As part of society, SSE believes it should services to function and thrive.
SSE relies on contribute to the cost of the services on which emergency services, public roads and the public it depends.
SSE has been an accredited Fair Tax health services to fulfil its core purpose of Mark company since 2014 and paid tax to providing energy in a reliable and sustainable way.
Lending human capital Supporting and creating sustainable jobs SSEs success depends on its employees and their As part of society, SSE believes in supporting innate abilities and learned knowledge.
It depends and creating high quality, long-term jobs for on society to make the first investment in that local people.
In 2015 16, SSE employed 21,118 human capital, through education and training.
people directly and supported another 97,430 jobs across the UK and Ireland.
Giving right to pay dividends Energy was once nationalised, and so SSE Investing in infrastructure depends on society for the right to pay dividends SSE helps maintain and grow the energy to shareholders.
To attract and support infrastructure society needs.
In 2015 16 SSE investment in energy infrastructure, SSE has invested 1.6m in energy assets and services, paid increasing dividends each year since it part of the 8.9bn and 805m contribution SSE was formed in 1998. made to UK and Irish economies in the same year.
Providing public services Paying a fair share of tax Providing the Supporting and creating Lending human capital energy people sustainable jobs need Giving right to pay Investing in dividends infrastructure 22 SSE plc Annual Report 2016
