Responsible buyer Using SSEs buying power for good SSE seeks to use the power of its supply chain to bring about positive social and environment outcomes, and by doing so, aims to bring about long-term sustainable business benefits that also contribute to the wider economy.
Encouraging responsible procurement policy: introduced clauses in Creating an environment for business practice its standard contract forms for new contracts local supply chains to thrive SSEs responsible procurement charter aims to to ensure suppliers are able to demonstrate It is in SSEs interests for healthy local supply ensure all its suppliers act ethically, sustainably compliance with the Act: and as part of a chains to be able to compete effectively within and within the law by stating SSEs expectations community with other utilities introduced the context of a diverse and vibrant wider on health and safety, bribery and corruption, questions in the standard prequalification economy.
SSE believes that a responsible employment practices, conflicts of interest and process to ensure suppliers are assessing business should encourage in local supply chains environmental impacts.
By implementing this and managing the risk.
The Modern Slavery and businesses to ensure that communities and charter across SSEs 8,300 suppliers statement details the next steps SSE will be local areas are sustainable for the future.
To representing over 2.7bn of procurement taking in 2016 17 to comply with the Act.
support this SSE has targeted small to medium expenditure, progress has been made in 2015 16: sized enterprises, amongst other efforts through Improving the transparency its Open4Business portals in areas of significant 1.
Managing contractor safety performance: of SSEs supply chain practices major project activity with 22.8m of contracts Major construction projects can pose By understanding the environment and social or subcontracts awarded to local businesses, and particular health and safety risks and during practices of its supply chain SSE aims to reduce 19m awarded by our Tier 1 suppliers in 2015 16.
2015 16 a concerted focus on safety practices its non financial risks: build better relationships by SSEs Transmission business and its with suppliers and create value across its contractors led to an injury free year on the business.
This approach is an increasing major transmission projects in the north component to SSEs sustainability and the of Scotland.
SSE remains focused on its delivery of its business strategy.
enduring goal of zero incidents and continues to work closely with its contractors to improve To support this objective SSE has developed performance across all of its business units.
a responsibility dashboard that tracks and benchmarks major suppliers performance on 2.
Living wage: SSE continued to implement several responsibility criteria including carbon the requirement for contracted employees emissions, compliance, employment policies who work regularly on SSEs sites to receive and environmental impact.
The aim of this at least the Living Wage.
Every new service is for SSE to use this information to report on and works contract awarded after 1 April 2014 sustainability practices in addition to other has included this Living Wage requirement.
financial and business data and improve the According to modelling undertaken by transparency of non financial reporting in KPMG on SSEs behalf, as of 1 April 2016, it is the supply chain in the future.
estimated that 50% of the relevant contracts had implemented this requirement and over Understanding the economic 400 people will have received a pay rise in impact of SSEs supply chain 2015 16.
90% compliance is expected by Recognising the significant economic contribution 31 March 2017.
SSE makes through its investments and operations, KPMG modelling found that as a result of SSE has sought to quantify and publish the SSEs Living Wage commitments for contracts, 3.
Modern slavery: SSE has taken the first steps economic impact of specific investment over 400 people will have received a pay rise in 2015 16. to ensure that modern slavery and human projects, alongside social and environmental trafficking is not present within SSEs own impacts.
Working on the premise that the business and its supply chain.
For the first process of quantification encourages greater time, SSE has produced a Modern Slavery value of non financial impacts, in 2015 16, Statement available on sse.
com which sets SSE has undertaken economic assessment out its approach and the activities that will be of the following projects: Caithness-Moray implemented to ensure SSE complies with the Transmission project: Clyde Extension Wind Act.
SSE has also set standards that it expects Farm: and Wyndford District Heating.
its suppliers to adhere to in its responsible 23
