Strategic Report Embedding responsibility Responsible employer Sustainable employment ethos At the heart of SSEs human capital strategy Building a team for future is an ethos about the way in which the talents and abilities of people flourish.
Understanding that the key driver of human capital comes from business success investing in talent, SSEs sustainable employment ethos seeks to give a firm foundation from which this valuable resource can be enhanced.
SSEs ability to fulfil its core purpose and execute its strategy depends upon The core characteristics of a sustainable the skills and talents of the people it employs.
The strategic development employment approach: of human capital is therefore critical to SSEs long-term success.
- In-house operational model preferring to directly employ the people it needs: - The avoidance of out-sourcing roles where possible: - The creation of sustainable employment opportunities, growing talent and developing skills from within: and - Where workforce changes are necessary Performance summary in challenging business environment, a preference against redundancy in 2015 16 2014 15 favour of redeployment or re-training 1 and a commitment to treating people Total number of employees Number 21,118 19,965 with dignity and respect.
2 Retention rate % 89 87 3 Total recruitment Number 2,763 2,319 Knowing that all its employees deserve at least to earn a rate of pay that enables them to live a Employee gender female % 31 30 decent life, SSE continues to be an accredited Average age Years 40 40 Living Wage employer in the UK and in 2015 16 4 became one of the first Living Wage employers Employee engagement index % 77 73 in the Republic of Ireland.
5 Total number of training interventions Number 63,052 48,656 6 Investment in pipelines 12.7m 11m SSE believes this approach gives a signal to its employees that they are valued and that 7 UK Productivity GVA per capita 129,670 139,870 worthwhile, rewarding careers can be built with 8 Productivity compared to UK average n:n 2.4:1 2.6:1 SSE.
In return, SSE looks for its employees to be engaged, motivated and flexible: delivering for Notes both customers and shareholders over the 1 Headcount at 31 March 2016, including employees within Windtowers Ltd. 2 Excludes end of fixed term contracts and internal transfers.
4 Externally facilitated company-wide employee engagement survey.
5 Including targeting courses, workshops, seminars on e-learning packages.
Responding to strategic challenges 6 Total cost of apprentice, engineering graduate and Technical Skills Trainee programmes.
The energy industry faces two significant 7 Based on SSEs direct contribution to UK GDP and directly employed employees, analysis undertaken by PwC.
The first is a skills 8 Based on output per capita data provided by the ONS.
Around half of the energy industrys workforce is due to leave or retire by 2023, so SSE must build new pipelines of talent.
The second challenge is a stark lack of diversity in the sector: just 15% of the jobs are held by women and only 4% are from Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic communities.
Creating a workforce for the future In 2014 15 SSE undertook an exercise to quantify the economic value of the human capital it employs.
That exercise was instructive and demonstrated that investing in growing talent from within is one of the most powerful ways to enhance this value.
Therefore SSEs first response to the looming skills shortage, in both the company itself and the energy industry as a whole, has been to create its own pipelines for growing new talent.
SSE offers a range of structured development programmes designed for school leavers, apprentices, trainee engineers and graduates, 24 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 1.
3. which introduce hundreds of young people development activity is predominately delivered Investing in diversity into SSE every year.
SSEs investment in three internally, ensuring the programmes are bespoke It is now well recognised that diverse and of its main pipeline programmes apprentices, and designed for SSEs particular circumstances.
inclusive organisations are more likely to be Technical Skills Trainees and engineering effective, innovative and commercially successful.
graduates grew by around 15% between It is therefore understood that SSE will be a more Internal training 59,738 training 2014 15 and 2015 16, from 11m to 12.7m.
productive and sustainable company if it interventions delivered internally in 2015 16 SSE also spent just under an additional 1m manages to attract and retain a workforce that delivering other pipeline programmes including is clearly diverse and inclusive in every sense.
business graduates, IT graduates, customer 8,519 service apprenticeships and the Barnardos To respond to the challenge of increasing the Works programme.
SSE is also investing in its diversity of its workforce, SSE has begun by links and relationships with schools to create targeting a series of actions around gender awareness of the careers SSE can offer.
Since 2014 15, the proportion of women 8,903 within SSEs workforce has risen very slightly from Building upon the human capital valuation 30% to 31%.
While still proportionally too low, 37,984 carried out in 2014 15, SSE used the methodology the number of women high earners earning over 4,332 again in 2015 16 to quantify the economic return 40,000 a year in SSE has increased, from 11% on investment for its youth employability in 2014 15 to 12% in 2015 16.
Combined with the programme, Barnardos Works.
Since 2008, gender pay differential data now being reported, SSE has helped over 230 previously unemployed there is a greater imperative to take more action young people join Barnardos Works and has to target female representation across the SSE invested around 1m to ensure its continued group.
SSE recognises that tackling the barriers Technical representing a significant increase success after almost a decade.
SSEs assessment that have prevented diversity must be a long run in training for smart metering outlines three ways this investment makes an commitment.
Therefore SSE set a long-term Customer service impact: on the individual, on the company and strategy in 2015 16 focussing on the principles Management on wider society.
It was found that for every e-learning of in, on and up.
1 invested by SSE between 2012 and 2015, the overall return was 7.67, demonstrating a The training and development delivered directly In: SSE aims to attract more women into the compelling business case for ongoing investment.
by SSE is supplemented by the use of external energy industry.
To do that, it is targeting more SSE has now used this methodology to measure courses and training providers.
In 2015 16 the young women into its pipeline programmes, the value of three pipeline programmes, and total number of training interventions internal whilst rolling out training for hiring managers to intends to continue using it to provide evidence and external grew by almost 30% from the challenge unconscious bias.
SSE understands for particular human capital investment priorities.
previous year, from 48,656 to 63,052, and the that barriers do not just start at the application total expenditure was 17.2m.
Having invested stage, so is working more closely with education significantly in the development of leadership partners to inspire girls to pursue STEM science, Pipelines 875 individuals on a pipeline skills, SSE will focus in the future on providing the technology, engineering and maths subjects.
programme in 2015 16 right work experiences to further enhance the Women with STEM expertise are also being skills of its current and future leaders.
encouraged to return back into the workplace through returnships.
SSE is working with Equate Further to this training activity, 1,200 managers Scotland, a gender equality organisation, and and leaders in 2015 16 participated in leadership the Prospect trade union to help professional 241 development training which is designed to grow women back into work to help meet the existing the future leaders of the company from within.
SSEs leadership blueprint defines the desirable 430 characteristics of successful leaders in SSE and On: To improve retention rates of women 24 has been supported by extensive workshops and in SSE, forums are being created to identify 8 seminars to embed positive leadership traits and implement policy changes.
Flexible 31 throughout the organisation see more on working continues to be a key contributor to 51 page 70. the attraction, retention and progression of 90 women in the workplace and so too does the In addition, SSE regards creating opportunities for offering of support at key life stages.
Over the people to develop their skills and experience by last year SSE has introduced parental mentoring Apprentices being given opportunities to undertake different whereby everybody who is planning to take Technical skills trainees roles across the SSE group as central to its overall maternity, paternity or adoption leave is offered Business graduates commitment to creating a high-performing and a mentor to support them before, during and Engineering graduates engaged workforce for the future.
after the period of leave.
IT graduates B arnardos Works participants Customer service apprenticeships SSEs policies support the employment, training, Up: SSE is determined to increase the number promotion and career development of disabled of women in the most senior positions within Beyond the focus on pipelines of new talent, SSE persons, as well as supporting employees who the company and an initial target has been set continues to invest in its people through talent become disabled during the course of their to more than double the proportion of women development, management training, technical employment.
SSE makes reasonable adjustments earning over 40,000 to 25% by 2025.
Following training, customer service development and the for disabled employees, including seeking the introduction of unconscious bias training delivery of specific issues-based knowledge and redeployment in the event that reasonable for senior leaders in 2015 16, a new programme skills through electronic learning techniques.
This adjustments are not possible.
will be introduced in 2016 17 for the active 25 Strategic Report Embedding responsibility Responsible employer continued sponsorship of career progression for women A culture of Speaking up for their financial future and has proactively within SSE.
A new resourcing approach for In 2015 16 SSE enhanced its whistleblowing enrolled new employees onto its pension all senior appointments will demand gender procedures through the implementation of schemes since 2005.
97.5% of SSEs employees diverse shortlists as well as gender balanced an externally hosted Speak Up phone line in 2015 16 chose to save for their future decision making panels.
and email service, so that employees can be through one of SSEs pension schemes.
confident that there will be no recriminations - Sharing success: SSE actively encourages Finally, SSEs sponsorship of the SSE Womens to the whistle-blower if wrongdoing is reported.
it employees to own shares in the company, FA Cup and the sponsorship of the SSE Womens offering both an employee Share Incentive Golf Invitational, a golf and networking event, Engaging employees Plan SIP and a Sharesave scheme, with have been deliberately designed to complement The principal of mutual respect underpins one of participation rates in 2015 16 at 64% and 41% SSEs overall business strategy to be more SSEs core business values: teamwork.
In 2015 16 SSE reduced the free attractive to female employees.
the other five values in the SSESET, teamwork has share element of the SIP in favour of a Free been an enduring value that guides employees in Share allocation to establish a more equitable Focusing on gender pay differentials their day-to-day working lives.
offer that introduces all employees to the SSE welcomes the new requirement on long-term benefits of share ownership, 79% companies to publish gender pay statistics Teamwork: we support and value our of employees have taken up this offer so far.
in the UK and will meet this requirement in full colleagues and enjoy working together - Employee benefits: A wider package according to the guidelines set by government, in an open and honest way of lifestyle benefits focus on employee once they are finalised.
In the meantime, SSE SSE continues to undertake a regular survey well-being, including medical cover, seeks to become an early adopter of such of employee opinion, with the 2015 16 survey gym membership, the opportunity to buy requirements and has calculated the gap achieving an 89% response rate.
The benchmark additional holiday leave and a free employee between men and womens pay according employee engagement index rose four points to assistance programme is available for to the draft guidance.
The survey provides important evidence confidential personal advice and support.
from which SSEs leadership is able to gauge the As of 30 April 2016 the proposed annual cut depth of overall engagement, but importantly, Working with trade unions date for calculating gender pay gaps, the overall it highlights strengths and weaknesses on SSEs human rights policy specifically respects gender pay differential within SSE was: particular priority areas.
the right of its employees to join a trade union.
SSE recognises four trade unions and has local Difference in mean pay between Rewarding employee contribution Joint Business Committees in place to ensure male and female employees 23.4% The ability to grow and develop a career is the that employees are engaged and consulted most important driver of employee retention, within their own business areas.
This structure Difference in median pay between and with this in mind SSE has expanded the is supported by a company Joint Negotiating male and female employees 19.4% opportunity for employees to create their own and Consultative Committee JNCC to ensure personal development plans, supported by line that company wide employee issues are This gap is not dissimilar to UK national averages.
managers with a growing set of online resources effectively managed.
75% of SSEs employees Early work by SSE that seeks to investigate this gap to enable self-led learning.
are covered by the negotiating arrangements sheds a lot more light on the factors influencing under the JNCC.
SSE respects the significance the overall position.
This process has been SSE has a comprehensive approach to of employee representatives in enabling instructive and is providing SSE with a rich seam performance management designed to enable employees to engage with business strategy of evidence from which it can build its diversity individuals to fulfil their potential at the same time and their critical role in delivering its success.
More detail is disclosed in the as contributing to SSEs business goals.
Alongside Sustainability Report 2016. assessing performance against agreed objectives, the process assesses the extent to which each Reinforcing an ethical business culture individual, including the senior management Human rights team, demonstrate their support for SSEs core In 2015 16, SSE established a new policy values of Safety, Service, Efficiency, Sustainability, on Human Rights.
Based on the UN Global Excellence and Teamwork.
Compact, the policy outlines the fundamental principles that guide SSEs employees, A growing focus on employee wellbeing resulted recognising that in both its direct employment in a number of interventions designed to help and through its supply chain, human rights must employees make positive healthy choices and be actively respected and protected.
The policy build mental health awareness.
Training has been also outlines SSEs commitment to meeting the provided to managers and supervisors in health provision of the UKs Modern Slavery Act.
and wellbeing resilience and a focus on health in operational areas ensures the ongoing Code of ethical business conduct management of Hand Arm Vibration risks.
SSEs Code of business conduct provides the basis from which employees are guided in terms It is also understood that employee benefit of the ethical business standards they are packages make an important contribution expected to meet.
SSE became a subscriber to employee commitment and motivation.
to the Institute of Business Ethics in 2015 16 and, SSE recognises that different employees have as a result of their advice and feedback, is different needs and therefore offers a variety undergoing a review of its existing Code with of further employee benefits: plans to launch an improved Code in 2016 17.
- SSE pension schemes: SSE has taken measures to help employees plan and save 26 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 1.
At the heart of SSEs human capital strategy is an ethos about the way in which the talents and abilities of people flourish.
Understanding that the key driver of human capital comes from investing in talent and creating sustainable employment, in 2015 16 we invested 13.7m in our pipeline programmes, employing 875 apprentices, trainees and graduates.
