OUR PEOPLE WE ARE A RELATIONSHIP BUSINESS WHERE PEOPLE ARE OUR MOST IMPORTANT ASSET EMPLOYEE GENDER BREAKDOWN 2015-2016 Board Directors 2 2016 7 2 2015 7 Managers and decision makers This is our culture, which is central to our OUR APPROACH 92 success.
We are therefore proactive in building This statement is a core cultural belief and a 2016 and reinforcing it.
For this most important of 418 fundamental element of the success of business differentiators it is the Board that St. Jamess Place.
Members of our community provides both tone at the top and oversight.
tend to share core values that are highly 71 The Board is committed to being consistent 2015 compatible with the values that are central to the 303 and clear sighted in its leadership and support business and established at the outset of the culture, and in particular the principle expertise, integrity and discretion.
They are that St. Jamess Place will seek to do the right Total employees passionate about our business and believe in hard thing for its clients and for all its stakeholders.
Age, race, colour, creed, 885 2016 In a world where the reputation of the financial sexuality, disability and gender are irrelevant: 943 services industry is constantly under pressure, merit and experience are of greatest importance.
we aspire to create an authentic alternative They treat each other with mutual respect, which clients and suppliers can trust, and which openness and fairness and are driven by a desire 665 2015 the communities we are part of can appreciate to do the right thing by all our stakeholders.
However, we recognise that we will not always get everything right, and so we Key: Female also believe in acknowledging mistakes made, Male rectifying them and learning from them.
Our people are a sustainable competitive advantage, so we aim to attract the best and help them fulfil their potential.
We secure their commitment by providing them with an interesting and challenging career within a first class working environment.
We reward them competitively, as well as encourage equity ownership, including in the Partnership.
We are a living wage employer and have committed to meeting the living wage for all our employees and suppliers.
Following recent acquisitions in the UK and overseas, we are committed to implementing the same or, where appropriate, similar principles across the Group.
We recognise that as our business grows we will have to take care of and protect our culture.
Our employee numbers within the SJP Group are 1,671 in the UK 1,828 worldwide and the number of Partners is nearly 2,400 over 3,400 advisers with over 4,500 support staff, and these numbers will continue to grow in future years.
18 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information was significantly higher than the financial CONTINUITY We are especially services benchmark of 77%.
We are especially To ensure continuity of our culture, we ensure pleased with survey scores that suggest that all employees and Partners joining the employees are proud to work for St. Jamess pleased with business are selected for their fit with our Place, are committed to staying with the corporate values, as well as their competency, business, and feel that we are an employer and that they are given a full induction as the survey scores that encourages them to strive for greater first step in their career with our business.
This strong engagement is set out in a booklet entitled Our Approach, that suggest contributes to low levels of staff turnover and which gives guidance on the culture and values underpins the quality and sustainability of our of St. Jamess Place, and the employee employees are proposition to Partners and clients alike.
handbook includes a statement about our Code of Ethics.
Whilst many of the original proud to work for In 2016 we held a Board level review of our principles on which our business was founded People Strategy.
This considered our current remain paramount, in 2016 we reviewed and approaches to resourcing and development, St. Jamess Place recommunicated Our Approach to ensure that including Early Careers programmes for it is appropriately adapted for the modern Apprentices and Graduates as well as workplace.
We believe it is important that experienced hires.
To meet the ongoing needs our community knows and understands our of our growing business, we intend to continue objectives, including the ethos behind the with and develop our existing programmes to St. Jamess Place brand and how its integrity ensure we have a strong pipeline of future and values should be maintained.
We also talent at all levels.
encourage shared commitment to the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
We renew our commitment to our culture through a variety of both formal and informal activities, including an Annual Company Meeting, employee and Partner Surveys, regular Partner meetings, feedback opportunities for employees with Directors, and a Leadership Conference for senior management.
They all provide opportunities to renew our joint understanding and encourage commitment to our shared culture, as well as ensuring a common awareness of the operational, financial and economic factors that contribute to the Companys performance.
Our regular employee survey, which we conduct every other year, provides important insights, crucially on employee engagement.
The most recent survey was in 2016 and we received a strong survey response rate of 87%.
Our overall engagement score was 86%, which Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 19 20 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information OUR PERFORMANCE The strong operating performance of the business during the year is reflected in the financial performance for the year.
CONTENTS Our Objectives and Related Key Performance Indicators Chief Financial Officers Report Financial Review Risk and Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Report Statement of Directors Responsibilities Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 21
