CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ST. JAMESS PLACE IS COMMITTED TO GROWING OUR BUSINESS IN A WAY THAT CONSIDERS THE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF WHAT WE DO We understand that responsible management is OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE CSR GOVERNANCE important to all our stakeholders shareholders, SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR Responsible management is central to our clients, Partners, employees, suppliers and the We are constantly seeking to improve our culture, and the task of maintaining this communities in which we operate.
delivery, but recent public endorsements include: culture including our CSR ambitions is a key We have received various awards relating to focus of the Executive Board, with oversight by Our commitment to responsible management our client offering over the years.
was established in the founding principles of recently, these have included the Wealth the Company and is expressed in both the Our Adviser Award for Best Private Client The Executive Board is supported in this Approach document, which is shared with all Investment Manager fourth year running, objective as in all of their work by a number of members of our community, and the What it the Personal Finance Awards Best Financial sub committees, which are chaired by means to be a member brochure, which sets Adviser seventh year running, FDs Directors or senior management.
out the expectations for our Partners.
We Excellence Awards Pension Firm of the believe responsible management continues to Year, City of London Wealth Management be embedded in our culture and reminders and Company of the Year Award second year encouragement to live by this philosophy are running, What Investment Readers Award provided regularly through team meetings, and Best Wealth Manager and Shares Magazine employee and Partner newsletters.
Our business model has been recognised By living up to the expectations established through winning the 2016 17 Britains within our culture, we believe we will be able Most Admired Companies Award in our to demonstrate trustworthiness, reliability and sector for the second year running, which is a commitment to the common good.
In a world run in association with Management Today.
where the reputation of the financial services Our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good industry is constantly under pressure, we aspire Index, which comprises companies that to create an authentic alternative which all our meet globally recognised corporate social stakeholders can trust, and which the responsibility criteria, recognised our communities we are part of can appreciate positive culture and ongoing commitment and respect.
Managing Committee Remit Our Culture Executive Board To ensure the strength and maintenance of the unique culture throughout our community.
CSR overview, Local CSR Group To co ordinate the Groups approach to CSR and CSR Community, Volunteering, Department with particular focus on promoting local Suppliers and the Environment community engagement and environmental matters.
Investment Management Investment Committee To manage our Investment Management Approach and Approach oversee our fund managers.
The St. Jamess Place Foundation Trustees To manage the St. Jamess Place Foundation, including Foundation overseeing grant making and compliance with the charitys objectives.
54 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information In this first year we have partnered with: COMMUNITY SUPPORT Responsible The Churn Project, which works to 2016 Highlights improve the quality of life and well being of management is isolated and disadvantaged people within The St. Jamess Place Foundation Cirencester: and We have always recognised our social Cirencester Housing for Young People responsibility to our local communities and, central to our CHYP which provides a home for young from the founding of the Group, have people at serious risk of homelessness as encouraged our staff and Partners to use their culture well as pastoral care and mentoring.
expertise to help local charities and other voluntary organisations.
The desire to provide Staff support has included Marketing, Property support to the less fortunate in society resulted and IT expertise and Partners have provided in the establishment of the St. Jamess Place financial advice.
During 2017 we aim to add Foundation which continues to receive support three more charities to this initiative and from all parts of the St. Jamess Place empower these charities to work together as Community: employees, Partners, clients, they all strive to help the same people.
This has been another record year for fundraising by members We are also pleased to have maintained our of our community and, as a result, the 100% drive to link the professional skills of our matching grant and other support from the employees to the professional needs of local Company was 3.7 million.
During 2016 we were able to offer 86 St. Jamess Place Foundation has now raised of our staff, who already volunteer with a local and distributed over 54 million to good community organisation, a grant of 300 as our causes.
Additional information from the way of recognising and supporting the 14,800 St. Jamess Place Foundation about its activities hours of volunteering they gave in their own is provided on pages 62 to 65 or available from time.
We also formalised our encouragement its website at www.
for staff to get involved with community activity, by offering all members of staff two Community Volunteering and Support days a year for community support in work St. Jamess Place has a strong tradition of time.
This has been used to support The volunteer support for the work of the Foundation, to get involved in other corporate Foundation, but 2016 has seen continued and CSR initiatives or through giving skills directly significant increases in our staff volunteering to a charity of their choice.
In 2016, 27.4% of for wider CSR initiatives and in work time staff used half a day or more of their two days community support.
and increasing this is a core objective of 2017.
A new CSR initiative introduced in 2016 was our In 2016 we have launched a new initiative to community team challenges.
These provide an partner with local charities to provide both opportunity for groups of colleagues to financial support and the physical and skills undertake community and charity projects capital of our organisation.
We are not together, which can also be beneficial in supporting specific projects, but rather the core strengthening teamwork and motivation.
1,200 charity to improve efficiency and sustainability.
hours of team community work have been These partnerships are aimed to last five years undertaken this year, working with causes local with decreasing funds but increasing staff ties to our offices including local charities, and skills based support.
conservation projects, and an NHS trust.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 55 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued Employability Skills for Young People St. Jamess Place is an entrepreneurial organisation and we have always been keen that the next generation should be able to contribute 88% successfully through employment.
In 2016 our of Group employees and contractors involved work with Cirencester College, including our in some kind of citizenship activity.
apprentices initiative, continued to be the heart of this workstream.
STAFF GIVING THROUGH STAFF PARTICIPATING SALARY COVENANT IN CSR ACTIVITIES Cirencester College St. Jamess Place has now been providing support to Cirencester College, a further education college local to our head office, for 18% over twelve years.
During that time, we have been able to offer 82 internships to students from Cirencester College, with 29 of them turning into full time employment 77% opportunities often in our Apprenticeship scheme see below.
However, our main involvement has been providing support for the four Academy Programmes, operated in conjunction with the national charity Career Ready, each designed for students who aspire STAFF ORGANISING STAFF PARTICIPATING IN FOUNDATION to work in a particular market sector.
The FOUNDATION ACTIVITIES FUNDRAISING EVENTS support provided includes providing paid summer internships, mentors, and business 12% coaching to many students.
Apprenticeships 41% Working in conjunction with Cirencester College, which provides the training, our apprenticeship programme is now a cornerstone of our long-term recruitment policy.
Our 2016 September intake of 14 has included apprenticeships in Financial Services, Business Administration, Marketing, IT and Accountancy.
The 2016 programme has been enriched by the addition of the Duke of Edinburghs Award for all our apprentices.
A further intake of 14 apprentices is planned for September 2017.
14 hours 8.1 hours 4.4 hours the number of hours our employees the average number of hours our employees the average number of hours our employees receive per year for community and contractors gave to support our and contractors gave of their own time in support in work time.
communities in 2016, during work time.
support of our CSR activities and the Foundation.
56 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other Employability Skills Training Loughborough University Swimming This year we have maintained out support for In 2016, we were pleased to continue our 495,172 organisations like Young Enterprise and sponsorship of the Loughborough University the total value of all the time our Employability UK, but also started to support Swimming programme.
This enables the squad employees and contractors gave The Duke of Edinburghs Award and the Urban to receive additional coaching and, since our in work time.
Stars programme: all helping young people relationship started in 2007, the team have bridge the gap between education and work.
medalled in all major UK and International We have also maintained our support for local events including European, Commonwealth, 4.63m schools with staff giving their time to support World Championships and the Olympic Games.
the total cash value we invested this year in CV workshops, networking days, assemblies, our communities and good causes through interview training and work experience.
Four of the 26 strong British Swimming team our CSR programmes and the SJP Foundation.
at the Rio Olympics were part of the With increased focus on careers education in Loughborough Universitys Fast Swimming schools and colleges we believe this is an programme: Francesca Halsall, Molly important area in which we can develop our Renshaw, Georgia Davies and Tim 1,773 offering in 2017, moving beyond providing Shuttleworth.
Adam Peaty, who also trains at the number of young people our staff have grants to finding ways of working more actively the University, won Britains first medal of the worked with face to face through our Financial in supporting these organisations with staff games, a Gold in the mens 100 metre Awareness programme.
The 21 year old then led Team GB to win Silver in the mens 4 x 100 metre Financial Education medley relay.
As one of the leading providers of financial advice to individuals and business owners in the In measuring our CSR community support UK, we recognise the importance and value activities, we use the LBG measurement of financial education and this continued to methodology.
be a core focus in the year.
During 2016 we significantly increased the delivery of our Year 9 and Sixth Form Financial Education courses with schools.
Offering a mix of full day, half day and flexible modular programmes we supported PSHE Personal, Social and Health Education and Maths curriculum in 15 schools and two charities in Gloucestershire, Wiltshire and London.
We have developed a team of staff to go into the schools to deliver our courses which brings the day to life for the students and delivers excellent engagement and positive experiences learning about tax, budgeting and understanding debt.
In all, 27 sessions have been delivered supporting over 2,000 students.
We have been able to both lead and support these days thanks to the 81 individual staff who volunteered to be involved, in all, giving 550 hours of work time.
Following the success of 2016 we will look to maintain the scale of our Financial Education programme in 2017 and expand delivery to schools and charities in more locations across Apprentices the UK supported by volunteers from our offices and wider Partnership.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 57 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued SUPPLIERS AND SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBLE INVESTING THE ENVIRONMENT St. Jamess Place believes in treating all our At St. Jamess Place we place emphasis on the St. Jamess Place is committed to managing stakeholders fairly.
We also believe in the principles of responsible investing RI in the our environmental impact through effective benefits to be gained from building long-term management of our clients assets and in the monitoring of energy systems, travel, water relationships based on mutual trust.
As a result, integration of environment, social and usage and waste recycling.
We recognise the many of our key suppliers have been associated governance ESG factors into the investment effect our business can have on climate change with the Group for a number of years and we process.
We see this as a tool for better and manage our business activities to reduce have been able to cultivate very strong and managing risk and generating sustainable, this impact where possible.
We were pleased to mutually beneficial relationships, such as our long-term returns and better financial see these efforts recognised in 2016, when we providers of outsourced administration outcomes.
were awarded a Grade B, Management by the services: IFDS, Capita and State Street.
CDP formerly Carbon Disclosure Project.
We have continued to develop our approach More generally, we expect all our suppliers to to RI during 2016, with the adoption of Oversight of our environmental strategy is act in accordance with the standards embedded the St. Jamess Place Approach to Responsible through a Corporate Social Responsibility in our culture, and will undertake due Investing Policy and its extension to cover all of Group CSR Group with ultimate diligence on new service providers to ensure our major asset classes equities, fixed income responsibility resting with David Bellamy we are comfortable with their approach to and property.
Our policy draws upon the CEO.
The group meets on a monthly basis socially responsible management.
Since 2014 United Nations Principles for Responsible and reviews environmental performance.
we have been accredited with the Living Wage Investment UNPRI but we also look to other Foundation, which involves us working closely exemplars, such as the Stewardship Code and We collect and report our environmental data with our supply chain.
We are particularly the Investment Associations Stewardship from October to September.
The following pleased that many of our suppliers share our Reporting Framework, the FTSE4Good tables summarise targets and progress, desire to make a positive and lasting difference criteria, as well as industry good practice.
expressed in terms of both absolute and to the lives of those less fortunate than We encourage the investment advisers, where normalised CO e emissions for our core 2 ourselves, and we are very grateful to all those appropriate, to become signatories of these business activities in recent years.
Core who have provided support to the St. Jamess associations.
business activities are defined as those within Place Foundation, both through donations and Operational Control.
Our emissions are through active participation in many of the We have also established a dedicated RI calculated in line with the Greenhouse Gas events.
Governance Group with the objective of Protocol using the 2016 emission factors promoting the principles of RI across our fund provided by DEFRA.
The emissions were St. Jamess Place has always placed great range.
We continue to engage with our calculated by our external sustainability reliance on the support of third party suppliers community of fund managers with a partner, Carbon Clear.
and the continued success of our business comprehensive programme of pre appointment reflects, amongst other things, our success in due diligence and ongoing oversight.
This As our business continues to grow, we have cultivating and managing successful includes a major emphasis on the incorporation worked to integrate the acquired entities and relationships with suppliers.
We are pleased to of ESG into the investment process and the our offices in Asia into the Company wide remain signed up to the Prompt Payment Code importance of stewardship activities, including environmental reporting.
Our new building in which is encouraged by the Department of engagement and voting.
In 2017 we plan to Cirencester has not been accounted for in this Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy BEIS publish our first RI dedicated client report.
years carbon footprint, as staff moved into and demonstrates a commitment to good there after our current reporting year.
We have practice between organisations and their achieved a BREEAM rating of very good for suppliers.
Signatories to the Code commit to the new building and will account for it within paying their suppliers within agreed and clearly next years carbon footprint.
defined terms, and commit also to ensuring that there is a proper process for dealing with In 2016 we exceeded the Scope 1 and 2 targets any issues that may arise.
that were set in 2013, in both absolute and normalised terms.
We have now confirmed our next set of emission reduction targets.
As a Company, we have committed to reducing our Scope 1 and 2 absolute emissions by 50% between 2016 and 2020.
We plan to achieve this target through a range of initiatives, including procuring renewable electricity for our UK offices.
58 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 1 Targets Absolute Emissions Targets % of % Increase Emissions p. a. from Base Year ID Scope Description in Scope Base Year Base Year Emissions Target Year Abs1 1 Gas and owned vehicles 100% 5% 2013 851 2016 Abs2 2 Electricity 100% 5% 2013 2,218 2016 Abs3 3 Business travel, waste, hotel stays, Electricity T&D 100% 5% 2013 3,704 2016 Normalised Emissions Targets % of % Increase Emissions p. a. from Base Year ID Scope Description in Scope Base Year Base Year Emissions Target Year Int1 1 Gas and owned vehicles 100% 0% 2013 3.03 2016 Int2 2 Electricity 100% 0% 2013 7.90 2016 Int3 3 Business travel, waste, hotel stays, Electricity T&D 100% 0% 2013 13.18 2016 2 Progress Absolute Emissions Progress Actual Emissions in Year % Variance ID Scope tonnes CO e from Target Comment 2 Emissions from gas and owned vehicles have continued to decrease, Abs1 1 683 -31% meaning that we have exceeded our Scope 1 absolute target.
Abs2 2 2,126 -17% Emissions from electricity increased from last year due to the inclusion of acquisitions in the carbon footprint, but we have still exceeded our Scope 2 absolute target.
Abs3 3 4,847 13% Scope 3 emissions appear to have increased due to an improvement in the methodology used to calculate emissions from air travel, giving us a more accurate representation of Scope 3 emissions going forwards.
Abs3.1 3 Property Trust 12,130 n a We calculated the emissions from our Property Trusts Investments and for the Well to Tank WTT component of our Scope 1 and 2 Investments and WTT emissions for the first time last year, so they were not considered within the 2013 target.
Normalised Emissions Progress Normalised Emissions in Year tonnes CO e 2 per % Variance ID Scope 000 sq ft from Target Comment Int1 1 1.73 -43% Whilst our floor area has continued to increase, our Scope 1 emissions have decreased, leading to a significant decrease in the Int2 2 5.40 -32% intensity of emissions.
The Scope 2 intensity has also decreased, Int3 3 12.31 -7% in line with a reduction in the carbon intensity within the national grid.
Trends in Scope 3 emissions are more difficult to predict because emissions from business travel and conferences are variable year on year.
Nonetheless, we have exceeded our Scope 3 intensity target.
The table below illustrates the changes in our absolute emissions over the past three years.
During this time, we have taken steps to improve our data quality and calculation methodology.
This has enabled us to gain a more accurate understanding of our environmental impact and therefore to take the appropriate steps to mitigate it.
3 Gross Emissions excluding Property Trusts Investment and WTT Gross Emissions tonnes CO e 2 ID Scope Activity 2014 2015 2016 Abs1 1 Gas and owned vehicles 932 764 683 Abs2 2 Electricity 1,888 1,984 2,126 Abs3 3 Business travel, waste, hotel stays, Electricity T&D 2,366 2,559 4,847 Total 5,187 5,307 7,656 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 59
