Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report 7.1 Introduction from Will Whitehorn, 7.3 Operation of the Health, Safety and Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee Environmental Committee The Committee considers health, safety and environmental risks, mitigations and issues across the Group and reports to the Board on The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee assists the Board to these matters.
The Committee also approves the Groups overall fulfil its responsibilities by recommending Group policy in these areas strategic safety framework.
It has access to internal safety executives and and monitoring compliance with the Group policy.
Helen Mahy stepped also external consultants, where required.
down from the Board and as Chairman of this Committee on 29 February 2016, after serving six years on the Board.
As Chairman of the Health, Executive management is responsible for ensuring that local health and Safety and Environmental Committee, Helen promoted a strong culture safety policies and procedures are consistent with the overall framework.
of safety from the Board into the whole Group and as the new Chairman Senior managers from each of the Groups key divisions attend meetings of the Committee, I am determined to ensure that the Committee of the Committee, providing the Committee with an opportunity to challenges the Group management team to continue to strengthen its question and challenge management on health, safety and safety management processes over time.
I would like to welcome Karen environmental matters.
As incidents occur, the Committee, aided by the Thomson, who joined the Committee from 21 April 2016. safety management teams, is able to analyse those incidents and learn lessons to further improve the Groups safety processes.
In order to formulate and monitor the Groups policies, I believe that it is important to involve a range of contributors from the Groups businesses The Committee and its members visit operational locations to observe and to ensure that the members of the Committee actively engage with health, safety and environmental management in practice.
During the those businesses to help the Group to evolve its health, safety and year, the members of the Committee visited the Groups Rail operations environmental strategy.
Members of the Committee are encouraged to at Clapham Junction and were briefed on a number of initiatives being be visible to the Groups managers and staff by engaging with operating undertaken by the Groups rail operations.
In particular, the rail divisions through regular site visits.
Managers are invited to attend management team explained the crowding issues that arise from the meetings of the Committee and are encouraged to bring more junior large number of passengers using Clapham Junction, the actions taken to members of their management teams to engage with the Committee.
By address the issue at Clapham and how these actions could be applied to bringing contributors together at its meetings, the Committee aims to other stations.
share knowledge between the Groups businesses and to challenge its In the Committees 2015 performance evaluation, members of the business managers and safety advisers to promote sustained Committee requested the chance to review the Groups Virgin Trains East improvement over time.
The Committee held its February 2016 meeting at York The safety and security of our customers, our people and others is Railway station and the Committee used the opportunity to receive fundamental to our business.
Public transport is the safest way to travel briefings on a number of areas of the Virgin Trains East Coast business.
and health and safety is at the top of our agenda.
The Committee also visited the Groups operations in Washington DC and surrounding areas during the year and received briefings from the local It is planned that I will hand over the chairmanship of the Committee to management team on North America driver training procedures and Ray OToole when he joins the Board in September 2016.
I am confident health initiatives in the local businesses.
that Ray will be a strong Committee Chairman and that the Group and the Committee will benefit from his depth of expertise in transport, Committee members attend meetings of the Safety Committees of health, safety and engineering matters.
individual business units from time to time.
The Committee allocates time in its agendas to receive detailed briefings on areas of specific interest or concern to it.
During the year, presentations were received on a range of topics, including: advances in road safety technology, safety processes at Virgin Trains East Coast and in the Groups North America Division, UK Bus and North America bus driver training, rail safety reporting, rail operation risk management, the Groups Sustainability Will Whitehorn Strategy, planning for terrorist incidents and driver drug and alcohol Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee testing processes.
8 July 2016 The Committee reviews the Groups analysis of health, safety and environmental risks and its strategies to address those risks.
The Committee receives reports on trends in health and safety indicators across the Group as well as information on significant incidents involving the Group.
Key performance indicators are provided and reviewed in 7.2 Composition of the Health, Safety and respect of each major operating division.
Training, where relevant, is Environmental Committee provided to the Committee on health, safety and environmental matters.
The Committee liaises with the Remuneration Committee in determining The membership of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is any health and safety objectives to form part of the Executive Directors summarised in section 4.9. personal objectives.
The terms of reference of the Health, Safety and Environmental Members of the Committee review entries for the annual Stagecoach Committee are available on the Groups website at Champions Awards, which reward employees for excellence in the areas http: www.
com  safety, environment, community, health, customer service and Committee.
