ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT Economic environment The macroeconomic factors affecting the financial landscape In 2016, the global economy lost gradual normalisation of its monetary policy, Weexpect the Federal Reserve Fed momentum as the major economies with a 0.25 percentage point interest rate tocontinue to tighten monetary policy andemerging markets slowed.
Both the hike in December 2016.
Despite the gradually with two rate hikes in 2017.
Euro USandthe Eurozone grew slower than in monetary tightening in the US, global area growth is likely to moderate slightly to 2015.
Emerging markets saw softer growth monetary policy remained accommodative, 1.4 per cent on the back of greater political in 2016 despite stabilisation of growth in with the Bank of Japan, theEuropean uncertainty and weak investments.
Standard Chartereds biggest Central Bank andthe Bank ofEngland all Following a referendum on 23 June 2016, markets in Asia continued to grow at a easing monetary conditions.
the UK voted to leave the European Union robust pace and once again proved to be Brexit.
As a result, the country is likely to the main engine of global growth.
Growth The outlook for 2017 witness a slowdown in growth as both inSubSaharan Africa SSA and the Middle investor and consumer sentiment is The economic landscape in 2017 is likely East weakened on the back of low oil prices.
affectedby the likelihood of a socalled tobe quite different from that in previous hardBrexit.
Global growth is likely to rise Estimates suggest that Asia, excluding years.
The potential reflation of the US modestly in 2017.
Japan, expanded its GDPby 5.9 per cent: economy is fuelling optimism while rising Africa growth slowed to 1.6 per cent and antiglobalisation and USled protectionism We expect Asia to remain the main driver the Middle East to 2.1 per cent.
China are likely to result in higher volatility.
No ofthe global economy, with growth of expanded by 6.7 per cent in 2016 and economy islikely to boom and geopolitical 5.9 per cent.
China is likely to continue to continues to be one of the fastestgrowing events will continue todominate macro and use fiscal policy to support GDP growth economies in the world.
India also financial market moves.
We expect the US ahead of the 19th Communist Party maintained an impressive growth rate economy to growby 2.1 per cent in 2017 Congress in autumn 2017.
We expect oil ofapproximately 6.8 per cent in 2016 onthe back of rising energy investment and prices to rise to $70 per barrel by Q42017 despite the nearterm growth pains from consumer leverage.
However, we doubt that and, broadly, higher metals prices, which demonetisation.
China focused on the Trump administration will be able to should also help drive a cyclical recovery stabilising growth, with fiscal policy playing implement itsambitious fiscaleasing plan.
ingrowth of 2.2 per cent in SSA.
The US continued Policy divergence will remain a key theme.
inthe Middle East and North Africa MENA is likely to remain subdued at 2.1 per cent respectively, despite expected higher oil prices partly owing to theoil production cuts agreed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries OPEC members in November 2016.
Medium-term outlook Global growth is likely to remain moderate over the next two to five years, despite some pickup in US growth.
Reflationary policies such as tax cuts will provide some support for US GDP growth in the medium term, but we expect the extent of fiscal stimulus to be limited owingto deteriorating fiscal metrics.
Growth beyond 2018 might also be constrained by likely trade protectionism measures and higher financing costs: we expect the Fed to raise rates by 75 basis points in 2018 on the back of higher inflation.
The Feds balance sheet may start passively shrinking in 2017.
A stimulatory US fiscal policy, in the absence of similar easing by other major economies, During 2016, economic growth in Sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East is likely to be offset to a certain extent by weakened on the back of low oil prices tighter financial conditions, including a 6 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PROJECTED COUNTRY GROWTH DURING 2017 1 China Hong Kong India Indonesia 6.6% 2.2% 7.2% 5.3% 2016: 6.7% 2016: 1.9% 2016: 6.8% 2016: 5.0% Nigeria Singapore South Korea UAE 2.8% 1.3% 2.3% 2.1% 2016: 1.7 % 2016: 2.0% 2016: 2.7% 2016: 2.4% UK US 1.7% 2.1% 2016: 2.0% 2016: 1.6% 1.
Indias financial year starts in April stronger US dollar.
The benefits to other both oilexporting and oilimporting MENA such concerns there.
More widespread use countries of an expansionary US fiscal economies have taken the opportunity to of digital technologies could also boost policy may be constrained by US reform subsidies while oil prices are low.
productivity growth, which has been protectionism.
We do not expect other Further structural reforms, together with impeded by high leverage and weak countries to follow suit with substantial recovering oil prices, are likely to support investment.
Digital technologies such as fiscalstimulus, with the euro area and Japan agrowth recovery in these countries robotics will gain importance in a world of continuing to rely on monetary easing.
Tighter financial shrinking labour pools and governments will conditions could also affect SSA with have to adjust redistribution mechanisms Emerging markets, however, are sensitive record eurobond issuance in 2012 to 2014 tosupport sections of the workforce that toUS monetary policy shocks and we are resulting in a concentration of debt are losing out to technological change.
likely to see greater volatility for countries maturities in 2022 to 2024. that have weak fundamentals, particularly The onus is on emerging markets to support weak external positions.
Antiglobalisation global growth in the long term, inour view.
Long-term outlook and antitrade sentiments are also likely to Many countries in Asia and Africa should be a key risk for emerging markets through Our longterm forecasts, which look ahead benefit from comparatively better global trade weakness.
However, Asia is more than five years, show developed demographic trends in the coming decade.
likely to remain one of the most resilient countries stuck in a shallow recovery trend, This improvement, together with low income regions with robust growth ofapproximately held back by shrinking labour pools and starting points, suggests a period of rapid 6 per cent, supported by domestic drivers.
Labour force catchup for these economies Indias Rising antiglobalisation sentiment is also growth could pick up with the rising economy is set to expand by over likely to be countered by renewed efforts for participation of women, the elderly and 8 per centper annum, on average, alternative regional trade deals led by China.
Rising antiimmigration rhetoric forthenext 15 years.
As countries enter in the developed world would pose a threat middleincome status, slower growth is The pace of growth in MENA and SSA to labour force growth, although efforts normal.
Weexpect Chinas growth rate willdepend upon continued measures to byEuropean Union leaders to strengthen totrend down to approximately 5 per cent diversify economies away from commodity ties and keep borders open could counter in the late 2020s.
Reforms, however, will be dependent sectors.
Over the last two years, essential to ensuring that countries currently going through soft patches such as Brazil, South Africa and Turkey achieve their potential in the coming years.
Emerging Southeast Asian economies areon a solid growth trend of approximately 57 per cent.
Steady progress in the ASEAN Economic Community and new reforms could provide upside risk to these forecasts.
Reforms aimed at economic diversification could also help resourcerich countries such as Nigeria to overcome shortterm volatility in commodity prices.
Our forecasts show emergingmarket economies continuing to grow substantially faster thandevelopedmarket economies, narrowing the income gap.
This implies fairlystrong global growth, partly driven bythe rising share of fastgrowing emerging markets in the world total.
The Economic environment report has been produced by our Global Research team.
The forecasts for 2017 reflect Any reflation policies in the US are unlikely to have an impact before 2018 itsprojections.
