SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Corporate Responsibility.
We remain committed to corporate responsibility at all levels in our business, with our Ethical Trading Manager and our Energy and Environment Manager ensuring that the Executive Committee and the Board are appraised fully on the progress we are making against our objectives.
co. uk 26 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Our corporate responsibility programme is designed to: We are a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI and work closely with our suppliers and their factories to ensure they We take our Financial ensure integrity in our supply chain relationships: operate in line with our Ethical Trading Code of Practice, which Statements drive environmental sustainability improvements: is based on the ETIs Base Code.
The Base Code sets out the responsibility minimum benchmark principles covering: support the communities we interact with: and safe and fair working conditions: to operate ethically ensure the welfare of our colleagues.
no forced labour, child labour, discrimination or physical We believe that this approach is not only beneficial to maltreatment: and responsibly stakeholders, but also contributes to the economic sustainability of the business.
freedom to associate and collectively bargain: and seriously.
Respecting fair wages and reasonable working hours.
Governance and risk management of corporate responsibility Our approach prioritises transparency and improvement to best human rights is We remain committed to corporate responsibility at all levels support a stable but growing supply base.
Where suppliers fall in our business, with our Ethical Trading Manager and our short of our Ethical Trading Code of Practice we engage actively a fundamental part Energy and Environment Manager ensuring that the Executive with them to support long-term and sustainable improvement.
Committee and the Board are appraised fully on the progress We do, however, commit to terminating our relationships with we are making against our objectives.
This team works with suppliers that demonstrate repeated or serious breaches of of our Companys departments across the business to identify opportunities to our Ethical Trading Code of Practice, with no evidence of operate in a more sustainable manner as well as helping to improvement and or a severe lack of engagement with these integrity.
implement and monitor their success.
Issues pertaining to corporate responsibility are reviewed within Our team our internal control and risk management processes.
Ethical Our ethical trading team sits within our sourcing function in our trading issues in the supply chain are considered as a risk to the Cheltenham head office.
As an integrated operational function, business and are reviewed in accordance with risk management the ethical trading team is able to: protocols.
You can read more on how we manage our risks on facilitate better understanding of the challenges faced by pages 44 to 48. factories and workers enabling us to respond quickly to issues Integrity of our relationships if they emerge: We take our responsibility to operate ethically and responsibly support the business to grow our supply base responsibly: and seriously.
Respecting human rights is a fundamental part of our Companys integrity.
reinforce our commitment to our suppliers.
The day-to-day management of factory ethical trading Our approach performance is increasingly led in-market: we recruited an We are committed to ensuring our clothing and accessories are Ethical Trading and Technical Compliance Manager in Turkey in made by workers who are treated fairly for the work they do, March 2016, with a similar role recruited in India in May 2016.
As with respect for their human rights and wellbeing.
we establish more direct sourcing offices, identifying appropriate resource to manage our suppliers ethical performance will be a key action.
Our ethical trading programme performance is overseen by the Transformation Director and is represented at the Board by the Chief Executive Officer.
co. uk 27 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Corporate Responsibility.
Core achievements in our outerwear factories were: Our suppliers Our progress We produce our clothing and accessories through third party This year, as a result of establishing local resource within key quality improvements resulting in a reduction of re-work of suppliers: the majority operate in Turkey, China and India.
Each source countries, we have strengthened our collaborative between 3.0% and 4.4%: supplier may operate from a number of factories or production approach with factory partners to support continuous and productivity on sewing lines increased by between 3% and units.
16% in the pieces they produced per hour: and Our Programme continues to adapt and respond to local Ethical audit of suppliers factories challenges: in one factory, the average overall monthly take-home FY16 FY15 Change wage across the workforce increased by 23% in the year to we have started to map and monitor our sub-contracted Third party March 2016, mainly due to improvements in productivity.
supply base tier 2, initially starting with our largest suppliers suppliers 74 58 28% tier 1, covering a significant proportion of our volume Collaboration Factories tier 1 globally: We recognise the importance of collaborating with other only 161 134 20% brands, retailers, trade unions and NGOs to pursue solutions we have developed and implemented our Migrant and for some of the more complex, systemic problems within global % of factories Contract Worker Policy and Guidelines to support our supply chains that we cannot solve alone.
We continue to work with ethical suppliers in protecting this particularly vulnerable group of through the ETI on issues including living wage, and the ethical audits 100% 98% 2% workers from exploitation: treatment of migrants and refugees with a particular focus on we have established relationships with locally based Nonhigh risk locations including India, Mauritius and Turkey.
During the year the number of suppliers we worked with Governmental Organisation NGO partners in Turkey increased by 28% whilst the number of factories increased by In 2016, in partnership with six other brands, the ETI, Fair and India to support the sustainable remediation of specific 20%.
We continue to strengthen our ethical trading processes Labour Association and the Turkish Ministry of Labour launched factory based issues.
This included a local NGO partner to to support responsible growth through early engagement with the distribution of a Turkish and Arabic paper flyer across Turkey support us in the responsible remediation should we identify both new suppliers and new factories, locally, to ensure they raising awareness of individuals on their rights while working any Syrian child labour in Turkey, and in establishing effective meet our requirements.
in garment factories in this region, initially circulating 270,000 worker management dialogue systems in two factories in copies.
Once we start working with factories, they enter our Ethical India: and Audit Programme Programme, which enables us to we are working with key China based outerwear and complete regular baseline checks against our Ethical Trading accessories factories to improve overall compliance through Code of Practice and now covers 100% of tier 1 factories: better transparency and training to provide workers with the all factories are audited by a globally recognised third party opportunity to increase their take-home wage, funded by audit provider: targeted quality and productivity improvements.
Three key outerwear factories completed the training this year and a all audits are completed on a semi-announced or further two accessories factories are on target to complete unannounced basis: and the training in the summer.
each audited factory is graded against our Ethical Trading Code of Practice.
We work closely with each of our suppliers and their factories to support improvement and the frequency of visits and a need for a re-audit is determined by the audit grade achieved.
For example, less compliant factories are visited more frequently.
co. uk 28 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance How we create environmental value Global greenhouse gas GHG emissions Tonnes Environmental sustainability We understand that as a global retailer and wholesaler of of CO equivalent Financial 2 clothing, footwear and accessories we impact the natural Statements 1 May 2015 1 May 2014 environment in a variety of ways.
Reflecting this, environmental to 30 April to 30 April 2016 2015 Solar Power at our consideration is integrated into our core business operations, decision making and evaluation procedures.
We are therefore Emissions: committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, energy distribution centre Scope 1: Combustion consumption and waste.
of fuel and operation of Energy efficiency facilities 500 355 Our distribution centre in Burton upon Trent hosts a 250kw Energy efficiency is a key consideration during store design.
Scope 2: Electricity, roof mounted solar photovoltaic array.
The installation was We ensure that we use the most energy efficient equipment heat, steam and cooling completed in March 2016 and consists of 1,000 solar and new stores are fitted with 100% LED lighting offering energy purchased for own use panels.
The array will generate more than 220MWh of savings of up to 70% versus conventional lighting systems.
location based method 9,575 9,422 electricity each year, representing approximately 15% of Additionally all new stores are fitted with smart meters and the sites electricity needs and saving more than 100 tonnes building management systems as standard to ensure that only Emissions per m of of carbon emissions per annum.
the minimum amount of energy is used in store operations.
revenue 17.09 19.13 Work continues to upgrade legacy stores in the estate to the latest energy efficiency standards - our UK store estate is now 1 May 201530 April 2016 10% more efficient than two years ago.
Location Market based based Renewable energy method method We continue to procure renewable energy wherever possible Emission comparison in both the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Renewable energy represented 91% and 96% of electricity consumption, Scope 2: Electricity, respectively, in these territories, the majority from wind, hydro heat, steam and cooling and solar power.
As part of our policy to procure renewables as purchased for own use 9,575 4,350 the default energy option wherever technically feasible, further We have measured our operational carbon footprint, providing green supplies have been secured in our Austrian, Belgian, insight into where the largest climate impacts are, enabling us Dutch, German, Italian and Danish estates.
All remaining to better prioritise resources.
Emissions are stated in tonnes territories will see green energy as the primary source of power of CO equivalent and data has been verified to AA1000 over the coming year.
GHG emissions intensity declined over the past 12 months reflecting the increase in energy efficiency in our stores.
In addition, new guidance on the reporting of Scope 2 emissions allows us to demonstrate the reduced environmental impact of purchasing renewable energy.
This market based method shows the emissions created using the precise mix of generating technologies used to supply our estate rather than simply taking a grid average of all generating technologies as is the case under the location based method used in the past.
co. uk 29 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Corporate Responsibility.
Rush Skate Park sponsorship: We continued our sponsorship GHG emission methodology University partnership of the Rush Skate Park for a second year.
This award-winning We have reported on all of the emission sources required under We are in the second year of our partnership with the University park run by a local Community Interest Company has a growing the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors of Gloucestershire where we work closely with undergraduates national and international reputation and provides recreational Reports Regulations 2013.
We report our emissions data using studying for degrees in Fashion, Graphic Design and opportunities for local youth.
a financial control approach meaning we include emissions Photography setting projects, providing work placements, from all parts of the business where we have the ability to direct judging final coursework and providing materials and support The welfare of our colleagues financial and operating policies - this includes our owned and to their respective programmes.
We have placed a number of The unique entrepreneurial and innovative culture which defines operated retail stores and office space.
Data has been prepared undergraduates within the business as part of their requirements our heritage continues to be at the heart of our ways of working.
in accordance with the WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate to complete their degree courses.
Our colleagues bring our brand to life and the success of the Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, WRI Group is a direct result of their knowledge, skills, drive, passion Princes Trust WBCSD GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance 2015 and emission and enthusiasm, wherever they are in the world.
Since our We provide sponsorship and work placements for young people factors from the DECC DEFRA GHG Conversion Factors for earliest days, we have created and maintained an environment as part of the Get into Retail programme run by The Princes Company Reporting 2015. where colleagues can flourish and fulfil their potential.
This course gives young people aged 16 to 25, who Although we strive to ensure that our emission figures are are work ready but do not have vocational skills, a mixture of We now employ approximately 4,500 people including part-time accurate, access to the relevant data is not always possible and, practical training and work experience.
colleagues across the UK, Europe, USA and Asia.
Colleague therefore, some estimation is necessary.
10% of our emissions numbers will continue to grow in the coming year as we embark this year are based on estimated data.
Charitable Activity on initiatives to deliver further growth.
To support attraction Superdry360, our charity and community support programme, and recruitment across our international businesses we have Working with our communities continues to grow and is a platform for charitable projects launched local careers sites in France, Belgium, Germany, Italy Youth employment remains an important social issue in the UK supporting the local, national and international communities in and the USA.
and in many other countries where we operate.
The investment which we operate.
This year we raised or donated approximately in our careers website has received overwhelmingly positive 200,000, an increase of 25,000 on the previous year.
Some In our first ever Group-wide engagement survey colleagues feedback from schools and careers advisers as it has raised key initiatives included: reinforced our view that SuperGroup is a very attractive place to awareness of the variety of careers young people can pursue work, with more than three quarters of colleagues believing that Match funding: In order to maximise the breadth of our and has shown them how to take that first step in building a it is the place where they want to work.
charitable impact our primary focus is on matching funds raised career in our industry.
by our colleagues to benefit various valuable causes across the Sharing in our success is something that we value highly and Local education globe.
During the year we matched 4,155 in support of our for the fifth year colleagues in the UK will have the opportunity Through Superdry School Days we work with local schools colleagues chosen charitable causes.
to join the Sharesave scheme and benefit from the newly to provide opportunities for students to experience working for introduced Buy As You Earn BAYE share scheme.
Project Everyone: Project Everyone was established during Superdry through engagement in focus groups, job shadowing the year to support the dissemination of the new UN Global Our demand for future talent continues to grow, driving a need and discussing with Superdry colleagues their career journeys.
Goals for sustainable development - a series of ambitious to both attract new people to the business and develop those This initiative has led to a number of students gaining valuable targets to end extreme poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and already in-post.
Our suite of tools and learning opportunities to work experience and has led to full time apprenticeships fix climate change for everyone by 2030.
As a global partner, the equip colleagues with the agility and skills to drive SuperGroup being offered in some instances.
We provide a best in class Group was proud to be involved in this unique opportunity and forward and offer them rewarding careers has been further work experience programme with placements for at least two through its donation will help raise awareness of the projects enhanced this year.
The ongoing review of talent across the students every month across the business.
goals through a wide range of media including music, radio and business has enabled us to identify colleagues rich in our cinema globally.
brand DNA and experience with the skills to support business development in new territories.
This review is conducted biannually giving us real line-of-sight of our future talent demands, existing pipeline of supply, as well as planning future succession.
co. uk 30 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Human rights We are committed to upholding all basic human rights and we Financial Statements welcome the implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights.
Our programme incorporates the principles of the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act by working to prevent human trafficking and slave labour in all of our factories around the world.
Modern Slavery Act 2016 marked our first public Modern Slavery Act disclosure which will be published alongside this report and will be available at www.
Health and safety Looking ahead, the focus will continue to be on how the right covering harassment and bullying, whistleblowing and equal We recognise the importance of health and safety and are talent is sourced, together with a strategy to develop our opportunities.
Our colleagues represent a wide and diverse committed fully to providing a safe and healthy environment for colleagues ahead of our growth curve.
workforce from all backgrounds, sexual orientations, nationalities our employees and customers.
and ethnic and religious groups.
With continued overseas Diversity A risk management process including monthly inspections, expansion, the workforce is becoming even more diverse.
We Equality and diversity are fundamental values to us.
We have annual auditing and trend analysis is followed to identify hazards respect cultural differences and actively seek to learn about an equal opportunities policy and take our responsibilities or increased risks within our Group and ensure that mitigating them in each territory in which we operate.
In addition, we give full and fair controls are effective.
The Board recognises the benefits of encouraging diversity consideration to applications for employment by disabled Policies and procedures are reviewed regularly to ensure they across all areas of the Group and believes that this contributes people.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, are robust and continue to further improve our health and safety to our continued success.
All appointments are made based every effort would be made to ensure that their employment standards.
This, along with the ongoing training programme for on merit and are measured against specific objective criteria with us continues and that appropriate training is arranged as stores and head office employees delivered by the health and including the skills and experience needed for the position.
safety team, has ensured that the level of reportable accidents We are committed to increasing the participation of women on We believe in respecting individuals and their rights in the remains extremely low at just four during FY16.
the Board and at senior management level.
As illustrated in the workplace.
With this in mind, specific policies are in place Employees are encouraged to report any health and safety table below, more than half of our total colleagues are female: concerns they may have either internally through the escalation Male Female Total procedure or via the independent whistleblowing hotline.
No Role Number % Number % Number reports or calls regarding health and safety have been made in FY16.
Group Board Directors 9 90 1 10 10 Substantial investment continues to be made in protecting Executive Committee 6 66 3 34 9 our colleagues and customers through the installation and Senior Managers 14 64 8 36 22 upgrading of physical security and fire detection systems.
