Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 27 Corporate social responsibility The long-term business success of the on those funds.
We aim to develop open, giving programme.
During the year, the SVG Capital Group requires effective long-term relationships with the private Company agreed to continue to support management of both financial and nonequity managers with whom we invest.
the School for Social Entrepreneurs and the financial performance.
Our business relies We engage with general partners to Outward Bound Trust which both focus inparticular on strong relationships with our identify where non-financial issues may on education and creation of opportunity.
employees, our investors and the general have an impact on our reputation and on A total of 105,000 was committed to our partners of the funds in which we invest.
We also engage chosen charities in the 12 month period.
Overall responsibility for the implementation with relevant industry associations and School for Social Entrepreneurs of the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR participate in other initiatives to help raise policy rests with the Board.
awareness and understanding of these The School for Social Entrepreneurs SSE issues, both within and outside the sector.
exists to provide training and opportunities Employees, social, community and to enable people to use their creative and Shareholders human rights issues entrepreneurial abilities more fully for Our objective is to ensure that our social benefit.
SSE also wants to recruit The Group employs 20 people based in operations address shareholders policies more innovative and capable people London broken down by gender as follows: relating to environmental, social and into voluntary and other organisations.
Number Male Female governance issues.
To do this we aim to: SSE runs practical learning programmes Group Employees 20 12 8 aimed at helping develop the individual a maintain a high standard of SVG Capital plc Directors 6 4 2 entrepreneur and their organisation corporate governance.
SSEs approach, and belief, Senior Managers 862 a respond to shareholders environmental, is that social change is people-powered, 1 Excludes Lynn Fordham who is included as a social and governance concerns as they and that the most valuable assets and Director of SVG Capital plc relate to our own operations.
resources we have are human ones.
As a financial services rm, the environmental and social impact of our a give full consideration to shareholders For more information: www.
However, we are looking concerns as they relate to our Outward Bound Trust at ways to reduce our environmental investment activities.
impact and to support local communities.
The Outward Bound Trust is an educational Funds in which we invest We recognise the mutual benets that can charity that uses the outdoors to help arise from doing this in a consistent way.
Our objective is to develop strong develop young people from all walks of relationships, balancing the legitimate life.
It runs adventurous and challenging Our objective is to recruit, train and retain needs of the general partners of the funds outdoor learning programmes that equip high calibre employees, and to foster a in which we invest with our interests and young people with valuable skills for work environment that helps them full the expectations of our shareholders.
education, work and life and help them their potential.
To do this we aim to: We aim to do this by: become more confident, more effective a provide a supportive work environment and more capable at school, college and in a ensuring the highest levels of integrity in and corporate culture.
our relationships with general partners, a provide appropriate training including appropriate transparency on For more information: and development.
uk a address, where possible, employees a developing strong and open working Engagement with the sector interests regarding environmental, social relationships with general partners, and governance issues.
Our objective is to engage in debates so that we can maintain trust on the role and impact of private equity.
without unnecessary restrictions and Greenhouse gas emissions We aim to do this by: unrealistic requests.
For the period to 30 September 2015, a working with relevant sector associations.
a undertaking early and constructive the Group had no employees.
During the engagement on environmental, social a participation in other relevant initiatives.
year, the Company entered into a lease and governance issues of legitimate of ofce premises to accommodate its a engaging in discussions concern to our shareholders.
Prior to 20 employees that joined the Group on with stakeholders.
investment, we evaluate how the general 1 October 2015.
It is impractical for the partners assess such issues as part of their Group to report on greenhouse emissions due diligence on underlying companies for the part-year.
By order of the Board and how they report on such issues.
Our investors and investments Charitable giving Although we are a major investor in Lynn Fordham The Group promotes charitable giving by private equity funds, regulations and Chief Executive direct donations to charities, in addition commercial realities limit the degree to to supporting staff with time off for 22 March 2016 which we can have an active inuence volunteering and a matched charitable
