STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY ATTHE HEART OF OUR BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS OUR APPROACH Successfully launched our SHE principles and 10 Golden Rules to further strengthen the Synthomer SHE culture Total recordable accident rate reduced by 46% compared to2015 Increased focus on process safety supported by our new SHE audit approach which proved effective at both existing and newly acquired sites A Human Resources framework was introduced to enhance the performance of our employees and provide the Synthomer Way to newly acquired sites Our people We have developed a Human OUR APPROACH Resources Framework covering five Financial results remain an important measure of success but pillars supported by an open and Synthomer recognises that to be a truly successful global business positive working environment to get wemust work hard to continually improve our safety, health and thebest out of our excellent people.
environment SHE performance and identify how we can positively impact our employees and the communities in which we operate.
READ MORE P22 In line with our SHE Policy, the Board, Chief Executive and Executive Committee are fully committed to improving SHE performance and engaging and involving employees at all levels inalllocations in our SHE programmes.
Effective SHE leadership todeliver SHE performance is a primary duty and expectation ofmanagement at all levels in the Group, aligned to our three longtermgoals: 1.
To minimise any environmental burden created by our activities: 2.
To have no accidents or incidents: and 3.
To have no adverse impact on the health of those who work in, or live near our operations, nor on the health of those who use Safety, health and the environment our products.
We have continued to focus on reducing accident rates in the past KEY PRACTICES AND PROGRAMS year.
Total recordable accident rate SHE management practices and systems are embedded throughout including the PAC sites fell 46%.
the Group with the aim of continuously improving SHE performance.
Weare committed to achieving azeroaccident rate.
Key measures, SHE performance indicators and SHE audit results are reported to the Board, the Executive Committee and to the READ MORE P24 regional management meetings on a monthly basis.
We reviewed significant incidents and injuries from the past few years and identified a number where both system failings and behavioural issues were a factor.
Following Line of Fire work in2015the Group launched a set of 10 SHE Principles and 10Golden Rules during 2016 across the whole group, and thesearenow an integral part of how Synthomer operates.
20 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION KEY SHE PROGRAMMES 2016 SHE KEY ACTIONS 2017 SHE KEY FOCUS Groups Safety, Health and All corporate SHE Standards reviewed Identification and sharing of best practice: Environment Management andstreamlined.
refreshing of Group SHE Procedures System SHEMS standards linked to key areas such as management andpolicies of change and permit to work.
Roll-out of SHE Principles and 10 Golden Rules to underpin all of SHEMS.
Group SHE audits Completed second year of new audit Completion of 3 year audit cycle on process, focusing on process safety risks legacy sites and full audit of some new and identification of key improvement actions sites.
Group SHE will also carry out with agreed timescales to implement.
additional assurance checks on sites internal audit process as part of site visits.
All new sites underwent a high level shallow dive SHE audit to identify potential priority areas for follow-up in2017.
The Group Accident and Incident Our electronic reporting system was Trend analysis to identify any common Management System AIMS modified to enable more effective themes as regards system failings will identification of any system failings influence future work programmes.
failures to apply SHE Principles and Golden Rules.
SHE training, communication Introduction of the SHE Principles and Further roll-out of first line manager andsupport Golden Rules across the Group.
Leadership workshop with all Site Ongoing process safety training across Managers to share learning and build on the Group.
the Principles and Golden Rules roll-out.
Global SHE Managers and Site Managers Workshops.
Alignment of staff incentives Group 2016 bonus scheme revised Continuation of 2016 process with toreflect the importance of safety improved performance targets defined.
toourbusiness and emphasize how allemployees can influence SHE performance targets based on both occupational and process safety.
The Group publishes an annual Corporate Social Responsibility CSR report which is available online.
It discusses a wider range of safety, health and environmental measures of our performance as well as other CSR measures and activities.
com tofind the latest report.
OUR SHE PRINCIPLES Our SHE Principles We launched our Safety, Health and Safe workplace and 10 Golden Rules Environment principles in 2016 across allsites including our 2016 acquisition.
Safe vehicle, safe driver For more information on our Wealways have time to work safely.
SHE Principles and 10 Golden Rules Safe processes and operations Look after yourself Look after each other Safe systems of work Effective last line of defence No change without assessment Stop and think Learning from our mistakes Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 21 STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability continued Male Female Total Board 8 1 9 Senior management 22 3 25 Employees 2,186 512 2,698 ATTRACTION AND RETENTION Our aim is to further enhance the attraction, selection and retention of staff through enhancing our employer brand, incorporating improved selection techniques when filling vacancies and continuing OUR the development of a vibrant, challenging yet supportive culture.
PEOPLE Over the last year improvements have been made in our Global Engineering Graduate Programme.
These improvements will be rolled out into our Global Technical and Commercial Graduate programmes in the coming year.
Employees in emerging markets Part of the heritage of Synthomer is the cultural diversity across theGroup and this continued to grow following the acquisition of the PAC business at the end of June.
We continue to embrace diversity 26% as an equal opportunity employer and have seen a small increase infemales within our senior management population.
Total Group employees We recruit, train and promote employees according to their achievements and commitment, treating employees equally 2,698 regardless of their race, national origin, religious affiliation, gendersexual orientation, disability, age or background.
Employees working in R&D It is a common challenge in the chemistry industry to recruit and retain a workforce that properly reflects the communities in which they operate, particularly in respect of gender.
We actively promote 138 gender equality and work with local universities to inspire women toconsider careers in our industry and with us.
OUR PEOPLE CASE STUDY: Human Resources has developed a new framework to drive growth and productivity of our people.
The framework is composed of five OUR COMMITMENT TO OUR LOCAL COMMUNITIES elements supported by an open and positive working environment, We seek to play a positive role in the communities in which HR policies and processes, and an integrated HR Business weoperate.
In particular, we use our unique talents, expertise Partnership team.
and passion for chemistry and engineering to inspire the next generation to learn and consider future careers in these important disciplines.
Our specialist manufacturer William Blythe teamed up withCatalyst to inspire young people from a local school DRIVE GROWTH inAccrington to take a closer look at science.
Catalyst is an AND PRODUCTIVITY interactive science centre and museum devoted to chemistry and how the products of chemistry are used in everyday life.
The excited pupils discovered that science can be engaging and fun when they visited the Catalyst Science Discovery Centre in Widnes sponsored by William Blythe.
PROACTIVE, RESPONSIVE PROMOTING BUSINESS HR POLICIES, A POSITIVE INTEGRATED SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT HR TEAM PROCESSES 22 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 ATTRACTION AND RETENTION REWARD AND RECOGNITION ORGANISATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS LEARNING DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION We strive for fair and transparent mechanisms for recognition and reward of staff.
In the past year we have simplified and updated an internationally recognised role assessment process which forms theframework of our reward and benefit policies.
This enables a fair Annual appraisals are a core HR comparison of jobs across the Group and gives a validated platform on process to align employee objectives which salary and benefits can be benchmarked.
Reward is linked to a with the strategy of the business.
An global performance management process that tracks achievement of objectives together with the way that these are delivered.
electronic system is in place to manage this process with 91% of eligible The global bonus system was amended in 2016 to align employees having completed their performance, where practicable, with targets that the employee can impact.
All staff have safety targets in their bonus scheme and the appraisals by the end of March 2016. majority of staff that are based at the local manufacturing operations have KPI and EBITDA targets aligned to their local site and business unit.
This scheme is being further simplified in the coming year.
ORGANISATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS With an emphasis on productivity, and alignment of our Human CASE STUDY: Resource capital with value adding contribution towards the OUR COMMITMENT TO DEVELOP KNOWLEDGE business, simple performance management principles continue tobe developed.
Training has been undertaken in parts of the ANDSCIENCE Group including managing effective performance and coaching We actively partner with eight universities in the UK and one forperformance.
each in the USA, Germany, France and Spain to support science undergraduates and post graduates as well as enhance our own Succession planning has been a significant area of focus through innovative capability through joint research on new monomers, 2016 with particular focus on senior management levels.
It was polymers and improved process.
Wehaverecruited three PhD recognised that the business and functional leadership needed graduates directly as a result of theseprograms.
tobe cost effectively strengthened to support delivery of the ambitious organic and acquisition growth plan.
The succession As part of our strategy to maintain our leadership position planis reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board.
inNitrile Latex, the Innovation Group continues to extend its fundamental research partnership and sponsorships with LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT localuniversities in Malaysia.
Most recently this was extended to Through the second half of 2016 the Human Resources and UTM Universiti Teknologi Malaysia with Synthomer sponsorship Operational Excellence teams have developed simple Leadership of Masters Degrees focused on emulsion polymerisation in latex Attributes based on best practice within the Chemical industries.
On successful completion, the students will join These simple attributes compliment work done within ENA and theInnovation Team in Kluang.
Further recognition programmes ARW and will, together with past performance, form the basis for were made during the year with an award for the best Polymer selection and development of current and future leaders.
This is also Science PhD thesis at the Malaysian Institute of Chemistry being embedded into the revamped Global Graduate Development InstitutKimia Malaysia.
Compliance training has been developed into an on-line training suite that allows employees to keep up to date withimportant developments in ethics and compliance law.
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT Linked across all of the pillars is our commitment to support and challenge authentic leaders who are focused on empowering staff and helping them to understand and grow their contribution to the Group and its stakeholders.
Encouraging leaders to treat others as they would like to be treated and also by leading by example, the culture continues to thrive and encourage employees to perform and to grow.
Organisational climate surveys, 360 feedback, coaching and mentoring are all utilised to support our leaders tounderstand their strengths and weaknesses.
In Asia a new career ladder has been introduced in 2016 with an aim to recognise staff and leadership development against firm criteria.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability continued PROCESS SAFETY At the end of 2015 we refined our definitions for process safety events PSE to align them with the new International Council of SAFETY, HEALTH AND Chemical Associations ICCA definition of a reportable PSE under THE ENVIRONMENT Responsible Care.
Internally we now track 4 levels of severity for SHE aPSE, focusing on root cause identification for the 2 most severe levels Level 2 being equivalent to an ICCA Reportable PSE.
There were ten such events reported in 2016 across all sites but noneresulted in injury, significant plant damage or environmental contamination.
These are covered in more detail in our full CSR Report.
As a result of reviewing the underlying failings that led to these events there are programmes of work planned in 2017 around process hazard analysis review, management of change and permit to work.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE SAFETY, HEALTH AND ACCIDENT PERFORMANCE We are proud of the fact that since 2000 we have reported ongoing OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY reductions in each of our main environmental targets: global warming On a like for like basis the Groups reportable lost time accident rate burden: energy and water consumption per tonne of production: and improved in 2016 to give Synthomer its best ever performance, with waste disposal from our sites.
five over three day accidents during the year.
Including full year data from the PAC sites, there were 12 over three day accidents, giving In 2014 we rebased our ten year targets to 2005 actual levels for aconsequent frequency rate of 0.20 per 100,000 hours worked.
We also set new 2020 targets for the above 4 metrics based on a 2012 baseline year, selected as it reflected the Our main lagging indicator of SHE injury performance is now the composition of the Group following the PolymerLatex acquisition in 2011. recordable injury rate for accidents involving more than first aid treatment.
Based on legacy site performance we achieved a With the acquisition of seven new sites in 2016, including those such as significant reduction in such injuries, from 28 in 2015 to ten in 2016. the monomer plant in the Czech Republic that has a wholly different The new Group had 18 recordable injuries in 2016 with a frequency energy profile to our core polymer operations, we will be reviewing and rate of 0.30 per 100,000 hours worked, a 46% improvement on 2015 revising the baseline and targets in 2017 against the new 2016 figures.
The performance of each of the key measures is discussed below.
Our target ultimately is to have no accidents or injuries so, whilst improving, we recognise there is more to be done to achieve a ENERGY sustained performance and interdependent safety culture.
We Including full year data from the PAC sites, the total net specific areconfident that this can be achieved by building on the SHE energy consumption SEC, i. e. energy use per tonne of production 10Principles and Golden Rules work in 2016. rose 29% see figure 2, the majority relating to a new acquisition inthe Czech Republic that produces monomers, acrylic acid There were no reported cases of disease attributed to occupational andpolymer dispersions.
The site uses brown coal in the onsite factors during the year.
powerstation aswell as gas, and overall accounts for 24% ofthenew Groups total energy consumption.
Note Except where stated the performance data in this report reflects thecomposition of the new Group including the PAC sites, and excludes theSouthAfrican business divested in 2016.
Figure 1 Figure 2 Figure 3 All Recordable Accident FrequencyRates Total Net Primary Energy Use Total Water Consumption 3 Giga Joules per production tonne m per production tonne RCR legacy RCR new Actual legacy Target base 2005 Actual legacy Target base 2005 Actual new Actual new 1.4 6.00 8.00 7.00 1.2 5.00 6.00 1.0 4.00 5.00 0.8 3.00 4.00 0.6 3.00 2.00 0.4 2.00 1.00 0.2 1.00 0.0 0.00 0.00 11 12 13 14 15 16 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Rate per 100,000 hours worked Rate per 100,000 hours worked 24 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION On a legacy site basis, absolute energy consumption based on WASTE DISPOSAL primary rather than metered electricity was down 2.3%, but a 2.7% Considering only the legacy sites there was a 15.5% reduction in total drop in production meant the specific energy consumption in GJ waste generated in 2016 and a 13% reduction on a per tonne basis.
tonne was 0.4% worse than last year.
Including the PAC sites overall waste generation in 2016 increased Factors that negatively impacted performance included product mix by33%, and on a per tonne production basis by 11.6%.
The process at some sites where there was an increase in the manufacture of at the PAC speciality plant in Italy generates a high proportion of more energy intensive high solids SBR latex: an increase in natural hazardous waste which is currently not recoverable.
The PAC French gas usage for a waste gas thermal oxidiser unit following retrofitting site generates a large amount of non-hazardous waste but 96% of work in Summer 2016 and new steam meters installed at another this is recovered as energy or via recycling.
site highlighted a likely under-reporting of consumption in 2015.
The absolute amount of waste sent to landfill rose just under 16% but Against this there was significant improvement seen on a number was down on a per tonne basis by 3.1% see figure 4.
As a result of ofsites as the benefits of a number of energy projects were realised.
the sale of the South African business, the reported 2016 hazardous Installation of new steam generators to replace old boilers at a plant waste to landfill dropped 27% in absolute terms and 39% on a per in the UK during Q4 led to a large reduction in gas consumption, tonne basis.
and further efficiency gains have been seen a 3% improvement atone of our largest sites in Malaysia.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Group reports environmental KPIs in the format recommended Better integration of energy projects within overall site manufacturing by the Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA, strategies is planned from 2017, and there will be a focus on the with Annual Reports containing data for each year since 2005 on topthird of sites with the highest contribution to Group energy athree year rolling basis.
In 2013 the format was revised to comply consumption in order to improve from the broadly flat performance with DEFRAs guidance relating to greenhouse gas emission seen in recent years.
reporting requirements within the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
WATER USE Total water consumption per tonne of production increased 14.6% REPORTING PARAMETERS in 2016 see figure 3, with the PAC Czech site accounting for 20% The 2016 financial year reporting includes all manufacturing of the absolute volume increase.
Excluding the PAC sites the operations, all office locations co-located with manufacturing consumption per tonne was virtually unchanged in 2016. andthose listed as contact locations in the annual report or on the Companys website.
It does not include some very small locations such as home offices.
These locations will have no material effect Excluding river water used for once through cooling and then on the Groups overall GHG emissions, being estimated at returned to the river on a number of sites, water usage per tonne considerably less than 0.1% of the Group total.
improved by 1.1% on the new site basis but was 1.9% worse on alegacy basis.
Whilst most sites in the Specialities Division saw improvements in water management, this was offset by increases All known emissions from manufacturing process have been inconsumption on the sites in Malaysia and Germany that consume included.
Specifically this covers direct energy usage and the the most water.
As the majority of our products are water based indirect energy costs of heating, cooling and other site services dispersions some of the increases are down to product mix and where these are provided by a third party.
As with energy, opportunities to improve water efficiency for the effects of the release of volatile organic compounds VOCs will be built in to sites manufacturing strategies and environmental targets on a prioritised basis.
Figure 4 Figure 5 Hazardous Waste Disposal to Land Global Warming Burden Tonnes waste per production tonne Tonnes CO2 equivalent released per production tonne Including CO2 from energy generation use Actual legacy Target base 2005 Actual legacy Target base 2005 Actual new Actual new 0.006 0.35 0.30 0.005 0.25 0.004 0.20 0.003 0.15 0.002 0.10 0.001 0.05 0.000 0.00 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Rate per 100,000 hours worked Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 25 STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability continued and refrigerant gases.
The only known emissions which have CALCULATION METHODS notbeen included are direct emissions of CO from on-site waste All direct energy production from fossil fuels has been aggregated 2 treatment facilities that have not currently been quantified, but which on a group wide basis and converted to CO e by using the 2 are not believed to have significant material impact on the overall appropriate DEFRA emissions factors.
No allowance has been figures reported.
made for possible country to country variation in calorific value orCO emission factors for primary fuels.
2 The Group has no known uses or releases of perfluorocarbons orsulphur hexafluoride.
All releases of nitrous oxide or methane Electricity has been converted to CO e on a country by country 2 areassociated with energy production and are not separately basis.
For 2015 and 2014 figures the factors provided by DEFRA quantified.
The Group continues to report scope 1 & 2 emissions.
forall operating countries was used.
For 2016 factors from DEFRA No estimate has been made of scope 3 emissions.
The Group were used for UK grid electricity and for overseas grid electricity continues to use emissions per production tonne as its intensity factors have been taken from the 2016 IEA World CO Emissions 2 ratio.
The data sources for emissions factors CO e are those from Fuel Combustion database.
2 fromDEFRA dataset for 2016 reporting published in June 2016 andthe IEA International Energy Authority.
As per UK Government guidance factors used for 2016 reporting are based on 2014 validated data.
In preparing the 2016 annual report using the IEA emissions factors it has been noted that there CASE STUDY: is variance in some cases for the emissions from electricity factors used in previous years between DEFRA and IEA.
However, figures OUR COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT for earlier reporting years have not been changed.
Kluang is our original site in Malaysia and over the last few yearswehave worked to upgrade the facility to reduce our Several sites within the Group now purchase certified green environmental impact and benefit the local community.
Electricity for these locations has been given a CO e 2 to promote the use of natural rainfall and reduce our dependency emissions factor of 0.00 in calculating energy related emissions on mains water, which can be scarce in Malaysia at certain times totals.
These sites were Oss in the Netherlands, Marl in Germany of the year, we initiated acapital project on land adjacent to the and the Ossett site in the UK.
facility to increase the size of the existing rainwater reservoir to capture water which isthen treated and used in our production Synthomers site in Stallingborough, UK takes most of its processes.
We also worked closely with the local Indian electricityfrom an exclusive contract with an adjacent waste community and Malaysian Ministry ofEducation to move the incinerator operated by Newlincs.
This electricity is certified as Tamil school and associated temple, which previously were Green by the UK government.
As a mixture of waste deemed both nextto our plant, to a better location withupgraded facilities.
renewable and non-renewable is consumed, it does not have a zero emission factor.
For 2016 the applied emission factor for electricity from Newlincs is based around that determined for the sites Climate Change Agreement CCA reporting of around 0.50 kg CO e per 2 kWh.
Work is ongoing to validate the factors applied.
The site isalsoprovided with indirect heating in the form of hot water fromNewlincs.
VOCs have been aggregated on a group basis and converted to CO e using a factor of 11.
This figure has been used by UK CIA 2 member companies since 2005 and is at the upper end of the rangefor VOCs.
Information on the release of refrigerant gases has been collected for 2011-2016.
Releases of each individual gas have been aggregated each year to give a Group release total and then converted to CO e using the equivalence factors given by DEFRA 2 for each gas.
The emissions factors applicable to refrigerant release in 2016 have been updated in line with DEFRAs adoption of the Global Warming Potential GWP factors from the IPCC 4th assessment report.
26 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION PERFORMANCE IN 2016 ThelatestIEA emissions factors used this year reflected The introduction into the Group of facilities that burn brown coal and theincreasing proportion of renewable energy contributing to the heavy oil to generate heat and power has had a significant impact overall energy mix in a number of countries.
For 2016 reporting the on our reporting emissions total.
Compared to 2015 the overall emissions factor for Malaysia decreased by almost 8% and that for emissions total as tonnes of CO equivalent increased by 48% and the UK byalmost 11%.
Only the Netherlands saw an increase in its 2 on a per tonne basis by 24% see figure 5 on page 25.
If the Czech grid emission factor.
plant is taken out, Group performance including the other PAC sites would indicate a 4.9% increase in absolute emissions but a 2.7% Refrigerant losses in the larger Group were down compared to improvement on a per tonne basis.
2015, but owing to the refrigerants involved and changes to the emissions factors applied the CO equivalent total rose 10%.
2 On a legacy site basis, the Group saw a 9% reduction in total emissions and 6% reduction on a per tonne basis.
This is part Despite the addition of new sites, VOC emissions reduced by 17% driven by the energy improvements noted on some sites, but in2016 due mainly to better operation of the cryogenic VOC system alsobychanged grid electricity emissions factors.
in Harlow and the waste gas system in Pasir Gudang, Malaysia.
Greenhouse gas equivalent losses related to VOCs are 90% lower Changes in the emissions factors in different countries have than in 2012. asignificant impact over which the Group has no control.
ENVIRONMENTAL KPIs This table presents environmental KPIs for 201416, with a coverage and format in line with Defras 2013 guidance, to comply with the reporting required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Report of the Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Data relates to site usage of all fuels, excluding transport of goods to and from site and the movement of these vehicles on site.
Internal transport on site is included.
Emissions to air have been calculated from the usage of all fuels, excluding transport fuel.
They therefore include both direct emissions and indirect emissions related to bought-in electricity, steam, compressed air, cooling water etc, with the exception of transmission and distribution losses for electricity these losses are in Scope 3, this report is for Scope 1 & 2.
CO equivalent emissions include contributions from CH and N2O associated with combustion.
NOx emissions are predominantly those from combustion processes.
The CO equivalent Global Warming Potential contribution from these releases is already 2 included in the CO from energy figure above.
The total CO e figure is the total of the CO equivalent from energy the VOC contribution assuming an average factor of 11 kg CO e per kg VOC the refrigerant contribution.
Percentage changes are calculated from the base data and may differ slightly from changes calculated from the data in the tables because of rounding.
CO e emissions for energy have been revised to more accurately reflect emissions linked to steam usage the generic heat and steam emissions factors from DEFRA 2 have been used for imported steam at our German and Finnish sites where exact data from the producer could not be obtained.
