Strategic report People TalkTalk has a unique culture founded on our Brighter Basics and our mission to deliver affordable, reliable, simple and fair telecoms services for everyone.
TalkTalk has been undergoing a wide ranging review of its corporate Although the cyber attack itself was undoubtedly achallenging culture over the last year which has yielded valuable insights into and sobering experience for TalkTalk employees, thebusiness our values, the way we work and the behaviours we role model.
showed itself highly capable of maintaining morale, efficiency and These are now being taken forward in an extensive cross-business co-ordination throughout a time of great uncertainty.
programme of cultural change which will bring TalkTalk back to its roots as a great value champion.
Learnings from the cyber attack As well as a full internal review into corporate culture following the A more mature TalkTalk cyber attack, TalkTalk also appointed independent advisers PWC To kick start our culture work, we required a clear view of our culture toconduct a thorough assessment of what happened and what today.
To source this, TalkTalk hosted a cross-Company event called learnings might be taken from TalkTalks experience.
PWCs findings a Culture Jam where employees were asked four questions about have been critical in helping to identify areas where improvement the Companys culture, which they answered both on noticeboards orchange is required to ensure the Companys energetic start-up across TalkTalks sites and online.
This was supplemented with culture is underpinned by a fully mature, responsible set of corporate 40 workshops including over 300 employees and partners.
Some of the key learnings from the report include: The Culture Jam presented a thorough and robust view of TalkTalks the need to see security not as a technology problem, but culture today and has led to a suite of proposals for the development asakey element of every project, thus ensuring the whole of our values, behaviours, leadership development and people business understands the risks and is able to make appropriate processes to be implemented over the next year.
judgement calls between safety and business opportunity: the need to ensure security concerns are well communicated Recovering from the cyber attack upand down the organisation.
Security must be a consistently The events of the cyber attack in October 2015 impacted every prominent and prioritised topic internally and colleagues must single employee at TalkTalk.
To reassure and motivate colleagues bekept up to date on policies, process and best practice: and through the first few weeks, the business shared daily updates withthe whole Company, ensuring questions and concerns were the need to balance TalkTalks fast-paced, entrepreneurial addressed as honestly and speedily as possible.
In November, the behaviours with an appropriate emphasis on governance Company hosted mini AllHands events at our three main sites andrigour.
hosted by our CEO and members of our Executive Committee.
The most important cultural learning for TalkTalk has been that This was an opportunity to update colleagues on business effective cyber security goes deeper than simply improving our performance face-to-face, to answer any outstanding questions operating security controls.
In fact it requires an evolution of and to publicly thank every employee for the part they played in corporate culture from start-up to fully mature business, in which taking care of our customers and stabilising the business.
Throughout reliability and responsibility are valued equally alongside innovation this challenging time, TalkTalk mirrored its approach of openness and can-do attitude.
Responding to these learnings, the Company and honesty with customers with employees.
As a result, TalkTalk is now implementing an extensive and exciting programme of staff were galvanised and united behind our overarching aim of cultural change, including behaviours, values and ways of working.
Building A Great Place to Work Last year, the feedback from our engagement survey informed our This year we have taken a new approach to measuring engagement at Great Place to Work Priority, and we started a long term journey to TalkTalk and participated in the Great Place to Work Institutes Best focus on three key areas: Future Organisation evolving our structure Workplaces Programme.
This saw our employees participate in a and making sure we have the right skills and capabilities for the future: survey to uncover how proud and satisfied they are feeling about Next Generation Working creating a working environment that is working here.
Participation was high, with 90% of our people taking part frictionless, flexible and collaborative: and Culture being clear about in the survey, and we had an engagement score of 71%, ahead ofthe the values and behaviours we need to be successful.
The journey will engagement national average in the UK of 65%.
This is particularly continue in the year ahead, but some of the highlights so far include: striking given that the survey was conducted in January 2016, just three Future organisation: the formation of a single Change Shared Service, months after the cyber attack took place.
working with new consistent processes and methodologies, as well as the formation of consolidated audit, risk and compliance: talent and development functions.
24 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016 for the business.
The tool supports blogging at all levels of the Next Generation Working: we opened our new meeting facility, organisation, so employees can continue to interact on Dido Hardings TheBoilerhouse in Salford, and announced that in 2017 we will be weekly blog, as well as regularly hearing from members of the senior bringing employees from our two North West sites together into one management group and all their employees.
The Wire proved an new campus in Media City, Salford, called Soapworks.
The site is being invaluable tool for us when we experienced the cyber attack last developed at the moment and will become a blueprint for all future October.
By means of daily blogs from Dido, we were able to provide TalkTalk sites, promoting collaboration and supporting a range of employees with regular updates on the situation and ensure they different working styles.
We have also started to explore next were informed and able toraise questions and concerns.
generation working styles in our London office, moving away from fixed desks to more flexible team neighbourhoods and hot desk A new innovation that we launched this year to further encourage use spaces.
These new working practices will be further enhanced in of The Wire was WeTalks open Q&A sessions hosted online, where theyear ahead, when we introduce Office 365 across the business, employees can ask subject matter experts or senior management providing all TalkTalk employees with Microsoft desktop applications questions on a particular business topic.
We provide all employees with that are more secure, whilst enabling enhanced collaboration, an overview of all the key business news from The Wire every Friday, communication and team working.
inan email publication called Re:Wired.
We also issue bi-weekly email communications to all People Managers with all the key Colleague performance and development information they need to support their teams.
Career development remains a key driver of engagement at TalkTalk For the past four years we have brought all of our UK-based employees andthis year we have made further improvements to our e-learning hub, and partners together for a one-day conference, All Hands, where TalkTalk U, ahead of a move later this year to a new Learning Management wecommunicate our strategic priorities for the year ahead.
This year, System, where we will be able to host an even wider range of interactive in May, well be hosting a roadshow-style version of the event, touring learning materials for our people.
We also continue to offer our people all of our sites in the UK and abroad.
In the autumn, we also host an mentoring and coaching sessions to support their development.
annual off-site festival called the Great Getaway, where employees Our annual performance management process continues to drive and their families come together for a day of fun activities and musical achievement, with all employees participating in a performance related acts as means of recognising contribution to the business.
This year we further aligned the process to our culture, evaluating employees on how well they have demonstrated Colleague recognition our Company behaviours the TalkTalk Essentials as part of the Celebrating employees who champion our culture is very important performance management process.
During their performance review to us and we continue to recognise the individuals who are living our this year, employees will now be partly evaluated not just on what they Brighter Basics through our On The Spot award scheme.
Once a year deliver but on how they deliver it, and their performance will be at our All Hands event, we also recognise the Superheroes amongst captured in our HR information system, Workday, for future traceability.
our employees and partners who have made an outstanding contribution to the business over the past year.
Last year, 15 Superheroes were Colleague benefits and share ownership rewarded with trips to London, Manchester and York, where highlights We continue to offer a comprehensive range of voluntary benefits, so included a dinner with members of our Executive Committee, a chance employees can make choices to suit their lifestyle.
We evaluate these to see our Ultra Fibre Optic project come to life in York, and a VIP on an annual basis, and this year we offered our employees even greater experience at Old Trafford.
flexibility, with the ability to opt in and out of certain benefits throughout At the end of last year, we specially recognised those employees the year as their circumstances change.
Our benefits not only drew whohad gone above and beyond during the cyber attack and given praise from our people during our Culture Jam event, but have now uptheir personal time outside of work to help us through the crisis.
also gained external recognition, as we received the award for Most We presented those involved with Red Letter Day vouchers, enabling Engaging Benefits Package at the 2015 Employee Benefits Awards.
them to choose a special treat for them and their families as a thank Share ownership remains an important part of our culture and over you for their support.
65% of our people currently participate in our Sharesave and Share Match Schemes.
Having so many of our people as shareholders Gender and diversity creates great engagement and alignment with the interests of our Our people come from different backgrounds and cultures, creating a investors.
We believe in our employees being advocates for our vibrant working environment that thrives on new ideas and fresh thinking.
products and continue to offer free home phone, broadband, fibre The importance of diversity, equality and non-discrimination is and TV to all employees, as well as half-price mobile packages and highlighted in our Equality Policy and underpinned by our People Brighter TVcontent offers throughout the course of the year.
Basic We can be ourselves here which guides the respectful way we behave towards each other.
From our Great Place to Work survey Colleague consultation One Voice forum we know that 80% of our people feel they can be themselves at work, One Voice is a consultation and information forum consisting of which we believe gives us a competitive advantage.
Furthermore, we 80nominated colleague representatives, management and scored 90% against the surveys diversity metrics around the fair members of our People Services team.
The forum meets regularly treatment of our people.
A breakdown by gender of the number of todiscuss how the key issues we face as a business might affect our people who were Directors of the Company, senior managers and employees, to share colleague feedback and discuss other relevant other employees as at 31 March 2016 is set out below: colleague matters.
Senior Directors management All employees Colleague communications and events We have a number of formal and informal channels that we use to Female 2 26 771 keepour employees up to date, energised and engaged.
Our online Male 10 73 1,461 collaboration tool, The Wire, remains a critical communication tool 25 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016
