Strategic report Regulatory environment The UK telecoms market is regulated by Ofcom which, amongst other objectives, sets the charges and other terms for wholesale access to infrastructure and associated services provided by BT, where BT is deemed to enjoy Significant Market Power.
Most of the wholesale products TalkTalk purchases from BT are provided by BT Openreach BTOR.
Ofcoms objective is to drive investment and to ensure that these wholesale products enable effective competition inthe retail market, so that consumers and businesses benefit from a choice of attractive services and retail service providers.
TalkTalk, along with other communication providers isrequired to comply with various regulation and legislation.
TalkTalks compliance with regulation is monitored internally by a Regulatory Compliance Committee.
Most material areas of regulation: Ofcom is expected to begin consulting in autumn 2016 on the next TalkTalk relies upon a number of wholesale products from BTOR to be LLU charge control which is due to be effective in April 2017.
There is a able to offer services to its customers.
The key wholesale products material risk that the new charge control will not have been completed are LLU the copper connections into homes businesses, GEA by Ofcom before the end of March 2017.
Where this has occurred in access to BTs fibre to the cabinet FTTC network and Ethernet the past, interim arrangements have been agreed between BT and fibre links used to connect exchanges to the Companys core Ofcom to ensure continued price controls.
As a result of Ofcoms network and also to connect some Business customers.
The price Cost Attribution Review which ended BTs practice of loading excessive and terms of these are set by Ofcom though a triennial market review costs onto regulated products, we expect MPF costs and therefore process which, particularly in the case of LLU, gives the Company MPF charges to reduce in future.
reasonable certainty of future costs.
GEA charge control Ofcom strategic review of digital communications BTOR provides wholesale access to its fibre infrastructure Following a consultation in July 2015, Ofcom published its initial predominantly FTTC, on an equivalent basis to all communication conclusions in February 2016.
Though this did not set new regulation, providers.
The BTOR wholesale product is called GEA.
TalkTalk uses it did provide a high level strategy that included: encouraging more GEA to provide its fibre broadband products.
Whilst the price of FTTP investment by BTs rivals through improving wholesale access GEAis not regulated, TalkTalk called for Ofcom to introduce margin to BTs ducts and poles : possible introduction of charge controls squeeze regulation establishing the minimum margin between GEA onGEA: increasing the separation between BT and BTOR possibly and BTs retail price.
In March 2015 Ofcom confirmed that margin including structural separation to increase BTORs independence: squeeze regulation would come into effect from April 2015, with the and a step change in BTOR service quality.
Many of these strategic first compliance report published in June 2015.
Both BT and TalkTalk changes will be implemented though the market reviews.
The question appealed the decision on different grounds.
The Competition of BTOR separation is being considered separately to the market reviews.
Appeals Tribunal CAT dismissed certain aspects of BTs appeal.
Ofcom is expected to consult on proposals in summer 2016.
Ofcom is TheCompetition and Markets Authority CMA is considering assessing whether BTOR should be set up as a wholly owned subsidiary, TalkTalks appeal and the remaining aspects of BTs appeal.
A decision though it is keeping open the option of structural separation which it is expected in May 2016.
Ofcoms FAMR will consider regulation of considers may be the cleanest and most clear-cut long term solution.
GEA from April 2017 onwards, including whether a charge control TalkTalk has been vocal in urging the regulator to take a bold approach, should be imposed and, if so, how it is calibrated.
In May 2016, Ofcom and the Government has recently called on Ofcom to takewhatever published a consultation on its proposed approach to modelling the action is needed to correct the competition problems identified, costs of GEA to be used in the event that a charge control is applied.
andto promote the growth of the digital economy, however radical We expect some reduction in GEA prices as a result of Ofcoms achange that might be.
Whilst both legal and structural separation will market review.
reduce BTs ability to abuse its vertical integration as accepted by Ofcom and therefore benefit TalkTalk, we are clear that only structural Duct and pole access separation can deliver the full benefits to the UK market.
Ofcom set out in its Strategic Review that it would improve wholesale access to BTs ducts and poles so that BTs rivals could use these LLU charge control and service standards assets to roll-out their own FTTP networks.
Ofcom will likely impose In June 2014 Ofcom published its Fixed Access Market Review specific regulation on BT as part ofits FAMR including: better FAMR, which included the new LLU charge control for the period information availability: a requirement onBT to use the wholesale to31 March 2017: as a result MPF charges rose from 83.92 to 90.24. products itself: and improved operationalprocesses.
Duct and pole The FAMR also established new minimum service standards on BT forprovisioning and repair of copper access lines, as well as a new access could benefit TalkTalk by reducing the cost and increasing the requirement for BT to report a range of key performance indicators.
speed of roll-out of our own FTTP network.
16 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016 Business Connectivity Market Review Illegal file sharing In May 2016, Ofcom published the final statement of its Business TalkTalk, along with other major ISPs, has voluntarily agreed to send Connectivity Market Review BCMR which sets regulation for educational notifications to customers who have an IP address dedicated fibre connections used by businesses, and as backhaul assigned to their account which has been detected as being used connections for LLU and mobile networks.
The regulation included: forillegal Peer to Peer P2P file sharing.
The first notifications are price reductions averaging 40% over the next three years: minimum expected to be sent around late 2016.
Pursuant to various court service standards for Ethernet circuits provisioning where quality orders, TalkTalk is required to block access to certain sites that are hasbeen very poor for over three years : and an obligation for BT used for illegal file sharing and for trademark infringement.
tooffer a dark fibre access product to be launched by October 2017.
Voluntary measures on parental controls The new regulation will benefit TalkTalk in several ways: lower costs In June 2013, following a formal Government consultation into parental forEthernet services: the opportunity to lower costs further through controls, the Prime Minister announced that the other three major using dark fibre: and an improvement in provisioning quality which ISPs would introduce whole home filtering systems similar to willincrease customer satisfaction.
He also announced that ISPs would Wholesale Must Offer for sports channels ensure that all new and existing customers faced an unavoidable Ofcom previously imposed a Wholesale Must Offer WMO obligation choice about whether to activate filters, which TalkTalk completed in on Sky, requiring it to offer Sky Sports 1 and 2 on a wholesale basis to 2015.
The Government is expected to introduce secondary legislation other retailers at regulated prices.
In December 2015, Ofcom published in 2016 to support the existing system of parental controls.
TalkTalk a statement withdrawing the WMO obligation on Sky since it considered does not anticipate this impacting the business.
that it was no longer necessary, though it would reassess the need for The Government is also currently consulting on additional measures regulation if supply did not continue to be provided on reasonable to prevent children accessing pornographic content, with legislation terms.
This regulation does not directly affect TalkTalk since TalkTalk expected this year.
TalkTalk is working closely with the Government on has commercial arrangements with Sky.
these measures, which are not expected to include significant new responsibilities for ISPs.
Several other areas of current or potential regulation andlegislation are significant for TalkTalk: Along with the other major ISPs, TalkTalk continues to support European Commissions Directorate General of Competitions Internet Matters, a not-for-profit online child safety organisation.
DG COMP review of Three O2 Asaboard member of the UK Council for Child Internet Safety, DG COMP has been reviewing the proposed merger of Hutchison TalkTalk continues to engage actively with the Government on Whampoa andTelefnicas UK mobile businesses Three and O2 itspolicies for protecting children online.
Theproposed consolidation would have reduced the Switching number of MNOs competing in the UK market from four to three.
DG Ofcom is consulting on proposals to reform switching of mobile COMP hasnow prohibited the proposed merger.
It expects to publish its conclusions in Appeals framework autumn 2016.
It is also continuing its work on switching of triple play The Government is currently considering legislative options for the services and is due to publish its next steps in summer 2016.
TalkTalk second session of the 20152020 Parliament.
Bills may include continues to engage with Ofcom on these reforms.
Government proposals to change the regime for challenging Ofcoms decisions iscurrently considering legislative options for the second session through raising the hurdle for being permitted to make an appeal.
Bills may include proposals to simplify Thiswould reduce the time for Ofcom to finalise its decisions and switching.
TalkTalk is supportive of a simpler, more customer friendly make Ofcom more confident in setting strong regulation.
TalkTalk switching regime and is working closely with Government on the issue.
Universal Service Obligation USO European Commission Digital Single Market In November 2015, the Prime Minister announced an intention In May 2015, the European Commission published 16 initiatives as tointroduce a broadband USO, with the ambition to give people the part of the Digital Single Market agenda.
The measures seek to legal right to request a connection to broadband speeds of 10Mbps.
strengthen access to digital goods and services across Europe: Government is currently consulting onthe legislative powers required improve regulatory frameworks: and strengthen digital growth by and in March 2016 Ofcom launched a consultation on the USO design.
tackling issues such as skills shortages.
The Commission is currently TalkTalk is working closely with Government and Ofcom on the issue.
consulting on the proposals, with major changes unlikely to come EU roaming regulations intoforce before 2018.
In November 2015, the EU passed legislation on the maximum retail Investigatory Powers Bill roaming surcharges that apply from 30 April 2016 and the removal In March 2016 the Government introduced the Investigatory Powers Bill, ofroaming surcharges from 15 June 2017.
The Commission is reviewing which seeks to consolidate and update existing legislation governing the wholesale roaming market, fair use policies and sustainability the retention and sharing of communications data.
The Bill is subject mechanisms required to implement this policy.
TalkTalkis engaging toParliamentary scrutiny and change, but is likely to extend the with the review and implementing the required changes to its volume of data ISPs are required to store.
TalkTalk is working with roamingtariffs.
Government on the details of the legislation and how it would apply tothe business.
A version of the Bill is expected to be passed by Parliament by December 2016.
17 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016
