Strategic report Corporate social responsibility At TalkTalk we want everyone tobe able to enjoy the benefits .
We believe a civilised digital society is possible and we recognise we We have also joined forces with Get Safe Online, the UKs leading have an important role to play in helping to get there.
For this reason, awareness resource helping to protect people, finances, devices we focus our CSR efforts on three significant challenges: digital skills, andbusinesses from fraud.
We made a 25,000 contribution in digital safety and cyber security.
FY16and we have begun to work with them on national consumer-focused campaign activities designed to change the behaviour of digital citizens, We want to unlock the potential of the digital revolution for the starting with our own customers, so they are less likely to fall victim to the millions of people in the UK who still cannot benefit from increasing growing army of online scammers.
connectivity because they lack basic skills: we want to help parents keep their children safe as they spend more of their time online: We joined with the other four leading ISPs in 2014 to form Internet andwe want to fight the growing army of criminals looking to exploit Matters, an independent not-for-profit organisation that provides societys increasing reliance on digital products and services through information, support and advice to help parents keep their children fraud andscams.
This year we invested 500,000 in Internet Matters and generated 4m worth of in-kind marketing value by supporting Digital skills and inclusion awareness and information campaigns in communications.
This year we strengthened our partnership with leading digital skills and training charity, the Tinder Foundation.
Together we launched Additional activity Internet Start, a subsidised TalkTalk broadband package exclusively Since 2011 we have supported various projects, charities and individuals available to learners attending Tinder Foundations UK Online Centres using digital technology at a local level to make a positive social impact.
For the fourth year running, hundreds of TalkTalk The TalkTalk Digital Heroes Foundation has enabled usto support employees also volunteered as digital champions at participating ourcommunity initiatives, including the TalkTalk Digital Heroes local UK Online Centres, helping learners gain the vital digital skills Awards and our annual auction in aid of Ambitious about Autism.
needed to share in the benefits of the digital world.
The Digital Heroes Awards supports projects which harness technology As a founding partner of Go ON UK, TalkTalk pledged to work with to enhance lives and communities.
This year, the judges awarded the Government to help make the UK the worlds most digitally capable 10,000 grand prize to Helen McCabe of HOME, a not-for-profit that nation.
This year we supported Go ON UKs Digital Skills Heatmap, helps individuals, local community groups and charities with their animportant research project to highlight areas of the UK where digital marketing.
In total, TalkTalk awarded over 70,000 in grants digital skills are lacking.
We also worked with Go On UK to tackle the and prizes.
digital skills at local level in the London boroughs of Croydon and A key fundraising vehicle for our charitable activity is our annual Lewisham, directing expertise, financial support and digital champion charity auction for Ambitious about Autism, now in its sixth year.
In FY16, we donated 200,000 in Ambitious about Autism has had links with TalkTalk for 14 years, total to the charity.
overwhich period we have raised 2m for the charity, with much having gone towards digital projects.
In FY16 the auction raised Digital safety and security 390,000 FY15: 360,000.
TalkTalk understands that all ISPs play a very important role in helping to keep customers safe and secure online, and we are committed to Separately, TalkTalk has financially supported a number of other doing what we can to protect them.
digital skills organisations with funding and promotion, including Appsfor Good 50,000 and Code Club 30,000 per annum.
Since 2011 we have offered HomeSafe to all our residential customers Wehave also supported The Princes Trust, with donations of at no extra charge, enabling them to quickly and easily protect all the 15,000per annum since 2012. devices on a TalkTalk broadband connection.
We also offer a similar service specifically for Business customers called WorkSafe, which This year TalkTalk also contributed 50,000 towards Founders isfree with all Business Broadband and Superpowered Fibre Business Forums inaugural F Factor awards, a talent search backed by Broadband services.
CharlesDunstone and Simon Cowell that offers a 10,000 prize toyoung technology entrepreneurs who pitch their business ideas HomeSafe has long allowed existing customers network-level tohigh-profile entrepreneurs.
filtering of the content they believe to be inappropriate for their families.
InFY16, we asked all new customers to make an active choice Additionally, we donated 100,000 to ITVs Text Santa appeal in aid about whether or not to switch on filtering services when they join us.
of Macmillan Cancer Support, Make-A-Wish UK and Save the Children.
We also remind customers about the service once a year, so that they In total, the Group was responsible for generating 731,000 can adjust their settings if their needs or usage has changed.
FY15:725,000 of income for registered charities, including This year we extended our security measures, ensuring that our 514,000 of direct cash donations FY15: 340,800.
The Group SuperSafe Boost is available free to all customers.
Created with didnot make any political donations in the current or prior year.
ourlong term security partner F-Secure, the upgraded Boost gives customers protection from viruses and malware, secure web TalkTalk also retained both our FTSE4Good Index membership browsing and additional security when banking or shopping online.
andCarbon Saver Gold Standard certification.
26 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance Board of Directors and Executive Committee 28 Corporate governance 30 Audit Committee 34 Directors Remuneration Report 37 Other statutory information 56 Directors responsibility statement 58 27 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016
