t n e m e C v e r i e h a c t i A v i t y s e u l a V e S c p n Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility We approach corporate responsibility from a stakeholder perspective: in terms of our workplace, the environment, our marketplace and the communities of which we are a part Our Values Our Values define what we stand for and how we behave with our customers, Safety suppliers, investors, the communities we operate in and with each other.
We have a combined team of Values and Core Core Values Ethics Ambassadors who promote our Values Values and the right way of doing business Respect Integrity to colleagues across the Group.
Governance Management and performance Engagement and reporting Governance of Corporate Responsibility Workplace Engagement CR is overseen by the Boards We have implemented initiatives including We use stakeholder engagement and Corporate Responsibility Committee Prevention through Design PtD and feedback to inform our approach to see page 60.
SafeStart training to further improve and reporting on CR.
We have engaged our safety management, controls and principally with customers, investors The Chief Executive is the Board director performance see page 35. and community involvement partners with specific responsibility for CR.
We won the 2015 Global Corporate CR matters are considered within the Challenge GCC Outstanding Achievement Climate Disclosure Leadership Groups risk management and reporting Award for the level of participation and We are a member of the 2015 FTSE 350 processes see page 31. teamwork displayed by our employees Climate Disclosure Leadership Index In line with the requirements of the see page 37.
CDLI, scoring 99 out of 100 and ranked Modern Slavery Act 2015, we have begun in the top 10% of FTSE 350 companies Environment reporting on the steps we have taken that responding to CDPs climate change We are constructing a 40million seek to ensure that slavery and human programme www.
combined heat and power CHP energy trafficking is not taking place in our system for our Loudon, US facility that will: Reporting business or our supply chains at: The scope, principles and methodologies Reduce our global CO e emissions 2 we use in reporting CR performance are www.
com by around 10%  provided in CR Reporting Criteria Annual Improve operational efficiency Report 2016 at: Support our Speciality Food Ingredients growth strategy see page 17. www.
com CR2016 Marketplace We are on track to surpass our sustainable Our internal audit function has reviewed agriculture target, with programmes the CR information and data in this being implemented for 25 agricultural Annual Report to confirm its accuracy.
We gained independent external Community assurance over selected environmental We support communities locally and data on page 39 in this Annual Report globally in the areas of well-being, from Bureau Veritas UK Ltd. Their education and environment see page 41. assurance statement is at: www.
com CR2016 34 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 e a e d m r o f r e P T e y t a i l m i b w a t o n r u k o c c A Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report | Corporate Responsibility Safety External benchmarking WORKPLACE We have no higher priority than safety, To put our safety performance in context for our employees and for everyone who and because the majority of our employees Our employees are central to the Group comes to our sites.
Our Executive Safety are located in the US, we compare our and to delivering our strategy.
In line with Steering Committee, chaired by our Chief results with US industry averages, as our Values, we believe that everyone Executive, meets throughout the year shown in the graphs on page 36. should be safe at work and be treated fairly to review our safety performance and We also compare ourselves against other and with respect.
Our senior companies to review and understand how executives undertake executive safety Our policies and control arrangements they manage safety.
We work to apply the audits at most of our sites around the addressing ethical conduct and human learnings gained in further improving our world each year.
rights include: own safety controls and practices.
Our ultimate goal is to have no accidents Our Code of Ethics, and the internal and Safety improvement and no injuries.
external communication and training We work hard to continuously improve around it We have continued to undertake a our safety programmes, controls and The Groups global human resources thorough review of our safety management performance.
Initiatives that we policies and our position and practices programme during the year, using external implemented during 2015 included: on equal opportunities and diversity and internal auditors to review safety Prevention through Design PtD The Groups Speak Up whistleblowing management and controls at all our major In the design phase of capital projects, arrangements sites.
We found that good progress had before submitting projects for approval, Our controls for managing standards been made in terms of corrective actions project managers and engineers use in the supply chain see page 40. from previous audits and in overall safety process hazard analyses and PtD management and control standards.
Employee profile to design out hazards and risks.
Later, At 31 March 2016, Tate&Lyle employed Performance we then use task risk assessments and 1 2 4,326 people 2015 4,040.
During the The safety performance indicators of safety reviews before the installation year we have added staff in the global recordable incident rate and lost-work phase of new capital equipment.
This PtD Shared Service Centre in Poland and case rate defined on page 36 for approach extends into ongoing hazard expanded the commercial team in Asia.
employees and contractors combined identification and avoidance during the We have also hired incremental staff in saw decreases of 11% and 50% respectively operational phase of equipment.
We look our plant operations in Sweden, US, Brazil during calendar year 2015. for ways to eliminate and engineer out and China.
At the same time we have seen hazards: seeking to only use administrative The majority of incidents requiring some staff reductions in Italy, Germany controls or personal protective equipment treatment beyond first aid were the result and France.
For example, in terms of being struck by or struck against an of ergonomics, by installing vacuum lifters object and therefore, during calendar year we have avoided or reduced the need for 2016, we are implementing a campaign EMPLOYEES BY DIVISION manual handling of raw materials and to prevent these types of incidents.
as at 31 March 2016 finished product sacks, therefore reducing the risk of injury from lifting.
3 1 Speciality Food SAFETY PERFORMANCE Ingredients 49% by calendar year Our technical safety standards are subject 1 2 Bulk Ingredients 40% 1 to regular review and update to ensure 3 Central functions 11% 2 Recordable Lost-work that we are consistently taking the best incident rate case rate approach across our global facilities.
Change Change versus versus 2015 2014 2015 2014 Employees 0.46 -37% 0.12 -59% EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHY Contractors 1.47 30% 0.26 -33% as at 31 March 2016 Combined 0.76 -11% 0.16 -50% 4 1 North America 46% 2 Europe, Middle East 3 and Africa 31% In 2015, five of our US plants each won two 1 3 Latin America 13% US Corn Refiners Association CRA Safety 4 Asia Pacific 10% Awards.
Our annual global safety week 2 saw many employees and their families, alongside contractors, taking part in activities across our sites worldwide.
Our annual childrens safety calendar drawing contest, for employees families, encourages the next generation to be safe.
1 Reported on an equity basis for continuing operations.
No fatalities occurred during calendar year 2 Restated for the adoption of reporting on 2015 2014three.
an equity basis for continuing operations.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 35 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Safe design and condition of tall 1 Safety performance structures and process storage In 2015 we completed a programme of integrity checks by external structural RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE LOST-WORK CASE RATE engineers of tall buildings and process Number of injuries requiring treatment Number of injuries that resulted storage structures and equipment at our beyond first aid per 200,000 hours in lost-work days per 200,000 hours major manufacturing locations globally, to confirm that they were of a safe design Tate & Lyle employees Tate & Lyle employees and condition.
We also: Contractors Contractors Audited our preventative maintenance programmes at those facilities.
We seek to ensure that all equipment is routinely 2015 0.46 2015 0.12 checked and maintained to be reliable and safe 1.47 0.26 Had external experts conduct explosion risk assessments of combustible dust in process equipment and facilities.
2014 0.73 2014 0.29 Additional safety resources 1.13 0.39 We operate a work permit system at our manufacturing facilities globally, to ensure effective hazard assessment and safety 2013 0.43 2013 0.09 control arrangements for a variety of 0.94 0.22 non-routine activities performed by our employees and contractors.
At sites where we have seen an increased workload 2012 0.63 2012 0.19 due to production expansion projects for example we hired additional engineers 1.43 0.43 to ensure that this process is always correctly conducted and managed.
In 2015 our manufacturing sites also audited their completed work permits 2 2 NUMBER OF INCIDENTS COMBINED 2015 NUMBER OF CASES COMBINED 2015 for adequacy: and, in our safety audits by corporate staff and outside experts, we checked to see that this had been done 60 2014: 67 13 2014: 25 and was effective.
SafeStart behavioural safety training US INDUSTRY SECTOR EMPLOYEE US INDUSTRY SECTOR EMPLOYEE During 2015 we completed the training of 3 3 RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE 2014 AND LOST-WORK CASE RATE 2014 AND staff at our global manufacturing facilities TATE&LYLE EMPLOYEES 2015 TATE&LYLE EMPLOYEES 2015 in the SafeStart behavioural safety programme.
SafeStart training Beverage Beverage 6.0 1.6 contributes to our strong safety culture and tobacco and tobacco and also encourages employees Food Food 5.1 1.3 behavioural safety practices outside of manufacturing manufacturing work, including at home with their families.
3.6 Construction 1.3 Construction We are also providing SafeStart training for employees at our offices.
3.2 Private industry 1.0 Private industry Lets Stay Safe booklet During 2015 we created and distributed 2.3 Chemical manufacturing 0.7 Chemical manufacturing globally a Lets Stay Safe booklet to increase awareness and focus on 2.3 Wet corn milling 0.7 Wet corn milling programmes that prevent serious injuries and fatalities, such as our work 1.7 Energy manufacturing 0.5 Energy manufacturing permit system.
0.46 Tate & Lyle 0.12 Tate & Lyle 1 We report safety performance by calendar year and for all employees at both Tate&Lyle owned operations and at joint ventures.
2 Tate&Lyle employees and contractors combined.
3 Source: US Department of Labor, October 2015.
36 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report | Corporate Responsibility Gender diversity as at 31 March 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS SENIOR MANAGERS AND ALL EMPLOYEES 1 STATUTORY DIRECTORS 1 Men 78% 7 1 Men 82% 121 1 Men 73% 3,152 2 2 2 Women 22% 2 2 Women 18% 27 2 Women 27% 1,174 2 1 1 1 1 Gender diversity for senior managers, excluding statutory directors, is 76% 47 men and 24% 15 women.
Eliminating slips, trips and falls for the outstanding level of participation Good internal communication is essential In 2015 we implemented a Walking is an and teamwork displayed by its employees.
We communicate with our Activity campaign and an associated Learn more at: employees across the world in a number of winter safety campaign to help eliminate ways, using channels such as our intranet, www.
com slips, trips and falls.
our yammer internal social network, our quarterly employee magazine which is The psychology of accident prevention Relationship with employees published in English and summarised in and enhancing safety skills We believe in equal opportunities for all, nine languages, and face-to-face dialogue In 2015 we used an external consultant regardless of gender, sexual orientation, such as site-wide, functional and small to conduct training of production facility age, marital status, disability, race, group or team meetings.
managers and supervisors in the US on the religion or other beliefs and ethnic or psychology of safety, including: why people national origin.
We continue to invest in helping employees commit unsafe acts: how to intervene if and managers stay up to date with the Our policies, practices and procedures they see an unsafe act: how to give proper latest requirements of their roles.
During for recruitment, training and career feedback: and why people do not intervene.
the year this included a supervisors development seek to promote equality development programme, a people We also used external trainers to help of opportunity.
We are committed to management development programme, enhance our safety knowledge and skills treating people with disabilities fairly and a stakeholder management and on mechanical integrity, combustible dust, in all respects, including regarding influencing programme.
We also carried flammable liquids and vapours, static applications, training, promotion and out further training for managers on career development.
If an employee electricity hazards, hazardous area how to conduct performance reviews.
classifications, and process safety became disabled we would, where appropriate, aim to provide retraining management.
During the year we conducted our third for a more suitable role.
global employee survey to obtain Occupational health and well-being employees opinions about Tate&Lyle and We use external occupational health Diversity and inclusion to encourage conversations about how we professionals to monitor and safeguard We believe in a culture where all can continue to make the Group a better the health of employees at work, and to employees contribute to the performance place to work.
Participation increased provide information, advice and support of the Group and have the opportunity to to 88%, which demonstrates good to them on general health and wellness develop fully according to their individual engagement of employees in this initiative.
We aim to attract a diverse The overall survey score was 3.58 on a workforce that reflects the communities in From May to September 2015, 1,085 scale of 1 to 5 where 5 is the best score, which we operate.
Through our Employee employees took part in the 100 day Global broadly in line with the survey score in Resource Groups, company magazine, Corporate Challenge GCC, a workplace 2013 and better than in 2012.
The results internal website and various other health and engagement programme highlighted areas of progress and strength communication channels, we continue undertaken by companies worldwide each as well as areas where we can improve.
working to create awareness of diversity year.
Participating employees aim to take These have been turned into action plans and inclusion issues and opportunities.
more than 10,000 steps every day each for for individual teams and sites, as well as Employee engagement 100 days, working in teams of seven.
Tate&Lyle employees taking part We believe that employees who are committed to Tate&Lyle, our goals, achieved an average of 13,626 steps each every day: versus a GCC global average Values and strategy, and to each other, are happier and ultimately deliver across all companies participating of 12,960.
Tate&Lyle is proud to have won the better results.
GCC 2015 Outstanding Achievement Award Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 37 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued or improving in one area of environmental Our facilities operate under local ENVIRONMENT performance, there can be negative environmental authorisations and permits impacts on our performance in other areas: and we require strict compliance with We aim to operate our business with a for example, an overall more efficient these at all times.
If a site breaches an strong regard for environmental manufacturing process at our Decatur, operating limit, we seek to take steps sustainability.
By using resources such US facility is generating more inert immediately to resolve the issue and as energy and water more efficiently, and waste: and reducing air emissions can prevent reoccurrence.
reducing waste, we seek to improve our sometimes require more energy to power Our internal environmental audit environmental sustainability while also air emissions control technology.
We are programmes confirm conformity with controlling operating costs.
We work to working to mitigate such consequences our management standards.
Our rolling address environmental considerations through continual improvements in programme of external, independent across the life-cycle of our products, from resource and operational efficiency, environmental compliance audits assures our agricultural supply chain to how our and waste reduction programmes.
products are packaged and transported.
Policy and standards Within our own operations and joint Implementing our strategy, by growing Our environmental policy and standards ventures, we focus on those aspects of our our Speciality Food Ingredients business, apply to all our activities globally and we activities that have the greatest potential is gradually changing the shape of our aim to integrate environmental impact on the environment, namely the manufacturing operations: we are considerations into all major decisions.
use of energy and consequent air producing more speciality products which We undertake environmental emissions and carbon footprint, water typically involve additional manufacturing communication and awareness across use, and waste management.
steps compared with Bulk Ingredients the Group, including through induction products, and this can mean using more and other training at our manufacturing Beyond our own operations we focus our energy and or water resources, and or facilities.
Our policy is available on our attention on our agricultural raw material producing more waste.
It is also the case corporate website, www.
and ingredient supply chain, the that by improving overall operational transportation of our products to our efficiency in a manufacturing process, customers, and our product packaging.
Medium-term environmental sustainability targets Target by end of 2016 Calendar year 2015 status Examples 1 Reduce CO e emissions 10.4% reduction in CO e emissions In 2015, our Lafayette South, Indiana, US corn wet mill was 2 2 from energy use by 12.5% per tonne of production versus 2008 awarded Energy Star certification by the US Environmental per tonne of production Protection Agency EPA for its superior energy efficiency 1 baseline year 2008 performance.
Lafayette South is the only corn processing plant in the US to have achieved the EPAs Energy Star certification in 2015.
By increasing energy efficiency we reduce our CO e emissions.
2 Implement packaging Programmes initiated with Recent projects include reducing tertiary packaging in reduction programmes customers representing Europe and the US, and rationalising packaging sizes to use with customers representing 35% of sales less packaging per unit of product.
50% of sales Implement transport Programmes initiated with In 2015 we developed projects with two major customers efficiency programmes customers representing at our Westboro and Cocoa bulk trans-shipment stations with customers representing 35% of sales in the US, where we transfer bulk product from rail tanker 50% of sales cars to trucks.
By optimising product-type shipments we are reducing the volume of hot washwater used: achieving water use, wastewater and energy use reductions through transport efficiency.
Implement sustainable We are on track to surpass our Corn is by far our largest agricultural raw material by agricultural sourcing sustainable agriculture target, volume.
We buy corn from the corn belts of the US and programmes for our top with programmes currently being Europe.
We are engaging on sustainable agriculture directly 20 agricultural raw materials implemented for 25 agricultural with corn growers, through grower cooperatives and other and ingredients by volume raw materials ingredients see grower representatives such as the US National Corn Marketplace section page 39 Growers Association NCGA, and via specific projects as for more details part of our membership of the US Field to Market programme www.
1 We recognise that installing new air emissions control equipment, and the manufacture of more speciality products, makes it more challenging to reduce our energy use and CO e emissions in the medium term.
2 38 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report | Corporate Responsibility Operational performance We report GHG emissions in line with the Our biggest challenge is that our strategy GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Environmental to grow our Speciality Food Ingredients Reporting Standard.
The scope, principles 1 performance business means producing a greater and methodologies we use in reporting CR proportion of speciality ingredients, which performance are provided in CR Reporting by calendar year are generally more resource-intensive to Criteria Annual Report 2016 at manufacture than Bulk Ingredients.
ENERGY USE therefore continuously working on capital Gigajoules GJ per tonne production Water use projects and operational practices that Water use per tonne of production help us control this in terms of our direct 2 2015 4.69 decreased by 1.4% in 2015, due to the environmental performance: whilst also water efficiency projects and programmes working on transport and packaging, and 2014 4.62 we implemented during the year, for sustainable agriculture in our supply chain.
example: in 2015 our Santa Rosa, Brazil 2013 4.62 Energy use and carbon emissions plant achieved a 9% reduction in water use In calendar year 2015, compared with 2014, through improved water recovery and energy use per tonne of production re-use, and a proportionate reduction in PRIMARY CARBON FOOTPRINT increased by 1.5%: however, since 2008 wastewater.
Since 2008 we have reduced Tonnes CO e per tonne production 2 we have reduced energy use per tonne of water use per tonne of production by 3.2%.
Our carbon footprint Waste to landfill 2 2015 0.372 from energy use reduced by 1% per tonne Waste to landfill increased by 3.7% per of production in 2015: and since 2008 we 2014 tonne of production in 2015.
This was due 0.375 have reduced CO e emissions per tonne 2 to a process change at our Decatur, US of production by 10.4%.
2013 0.376 facility in mid-2014 that, whilst improving Examples of current projects include overall operational efficiency, led to a replacing the boiler economiser unit at significant increase in the volume of inert WATER USE our Lafayette South, US plant with a new waste.
However, excluding this process Cubic metres per tonne production model: and upgrading the economiser unit change at Decatur, waste would have at the Almex joint venture, Mexico plant.
We have 2 These improvements will increase the been successful in several waste reduction 2015 4.44 energy generation efficiency and reduce projects during 2015, for example: at 2014 4.50 the fuel use and thereby carbon Loudon, US we are significantly reducing emissions at these sites, starting in 2016. waste to landfill by the off-site reuse of 2013 4.34 wastewater treatment plant residuals and Group greenhouse gas GHG emissions for will see the full effect of this in the 2016 the period 1 January to 31 December 2015 calendar year Group numbers.
Overall, in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent WASTE TO LANDFILL since 2008 waste to landfill per tonne of tCO e were: 2 Tonnes per 1,000 tonnes production production has reduced by 4.6%.
From combustion of fuel and operation 2 2 of facilities Scope 1 2,159,046 tCO e 2015 9.13 2 MARKETPLACE 2014 2,266,975 2014 8.80 From electricity, heat, steam and cooling 2 purchased Scope 2 1,214,254 tCO2e The food and beverage industry is our 2013 7.25 2014 1,247,700 largest market sector and accounts for 2 In total Scope 1 and 2 3,373,300 tCO2e around 70% of Group sales.
Other industry 2014 3,514,675 which equates to an sectors we sell into include industrial, 2 intensity of 0.372 tCO2e 2014 0.375 animal feed and personal care.
Over the last few years, stakeholders We have reported on all of the material such as customers and investors have emission sources required under The been looking for more information around Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report sustainability and corporate responsibility.
1 We report environmental performance by calendar year and for all sites both Tate&Lyle owned and joint ventures.
The Eaststarch manufacturing sites in Bulgaria, Hungary and Turkey that we disposed of during 2015 are included in the data in this report up to 31October 2015, and will be removed from the data across all years in our next 2017 Annual Report: and, we will start reporting data in our next 2017 Annual Report for the manufacturing site we acquired in Sweden in 2013, and for our 2014 Gemacom Tech joint venture in Brazil and 2014 acquisition in China, once we have two full years of data: in line with our established methodology for separating the data of disposed sites and incorporating the data of new sites set out at www.
2 Refers to 2015 data that has been externally assured by Bureau Veritas UK Ltd. Their assurance statement is at www.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 39 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued During 2015 customers were increasingly product we launched in February 2015, Our customers are increasingly interested interested in how we could help them is a monosaccharide simple sugar found in this area, and we are working closely meet their own objectives and targets on in nature and made from corn, and has with several key customers to support sustainable agriculture, and how we use 90% fewer calories than and is 70% as them in meeting their own targets and the Sedex www.
com ethical sweet as sucrose normal table sugar, ambitions around sustainable agriculture.
compliance platform within our own but tastes just like it.
In 2014 we joined Field to Market business and our supply chain.
org : the US alliance Product safety, quality and sustainability Our products are derived from agricultural for sustainable agriculture, to help define, Our products are produced to the highest raw materials, primarily corn, and it is measure and advance sustainability in standards of food safety, quality and important that we have a robust, US agriculture, particularly with regard traceability.
Our manufacturing facilities sustainable supply chain.
During 2015 we have been are externally certified to the Global Food announced a sustainable agriculture target, developing a farm-level sustainable Safety Initiative, and the international to implement sustainable agricultural agriculture project for US corn through quality standard ISO 9000, and we have sourcing programmes for our top 20 the Field to Market programme.
well-established processes and agricultural raw materials ingredients by Conduct of commercial relationships procedures to ensure that we comply volume, by the end of 2016.
We are on track We are committed to ensuring a safe, open with these standards.
Our control to surpass this target, with programmes and responsible culture in all our business arrangements include: in-process testing: currently being implemented for 25 dealings wherever we operate, in line with our global compliance audit programme: agricultural raw materials ingredients.
our Code of Ethics our Code, and we annual product traceability and recall expect the same standards of our business testing, both globally and locally at each partners and suppliers as we do of our own facility: and independent food safety audits OUR SUSTAINABLE employees.
Our Code is made available of every manufacturing site.
in 13 languages and is communicated AGRICULTURE We consider sustainability criteria in the internally via our intranet, through local development of new products, and use Ethics and Values Ambassadors across PROGRAMME a sustainability evaluation tool as part the business, and via training programmes.
of our innovation pipeline to: HAS FIVE STEPS: Externally, we require our suppliers and business partners to comply with the Identify any potential sustainability standards set out in the Code.
concerns early in the product Initial sustainability social, development process Our Code is supported by a set of Standards environmental and economic 1 Evaluate sustainability issues as product on particular subjects, and in 2014 we risk assessment for each of development progresses, to avoid or carried out a review and updated several our agricultural raw materials reduce any potential adverse impacts of these, including the Group Competition ingredients such as the use of energy and nonAnti-trust Standard, the Group Gifts renewable resources, and to leverage and Hospitality Standard, and the Group Requests to individual suppliers positive impacts such as health and Standard on the Engagement of Agents and for ingredient-specific wellness benefits.
Our local Ethics information on social, ethical and Values Ambassadors and legal team Our aim is to help our customers provide and environmental matters, provided Code of Ethics training across consumers with healthy, nutritious food standards and certifications the Group in 2015, to help colleagues and beverages as part of a normal uphold the Code both internally and with balanced diet.
We aim to ensure that our Follow-up discussions with our business partners and suppliers.
ingredients, and any claims we make suppliers on their responses 3 regarding their benefits or efficacy, are Standards in our supply chain supported by clear, demonstrated We communicate our Code to our suppliers Establishing sustainable evidence.
through our terms and conditions, sourcing criteria for each 4 contracts and other engagement with In line with our strategy, our focus is on material ingredient them.
Our purchase contract terms and growing our Speciality Food Ingredients conditions include the requirement that business, and as such the majority of our Monitoring of compliance suppliers comply with the standards set new product development is in this area.
against the agreed criteria: out in our Code, and that they should 5 Many of our speciality sweeteners and whilst seeking continuous require similar standards from their own fibres improve stability, thereby helping improvement in management, suppliers.
Specifically, suppliers must be to extend consumer product shelf life and reporting and performance.
fully compliant with all applicable laws and assist in avoiding food waste, which is regulations, including but not limited to an important food industry sustainability those regarding freedom of association and issue.
Our platforms deliver innovative collective bargaining, non-discrimination, ingredients with substantiated health anti-corruption anti-bribery, and the benefits to customers worldwide.
For prevention of child or forced labour.
Allulose, a new example, DOLCIA PRIMA 40 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report | Corporate Responsibility Our procurement function has a process E ducation: to develop young peoples Education: this year we provided an to assess the environmental and social knowledge and understanding of additional six fellowships to University risks of suppliers based on their source science, technology, engineering and leaders in Vietnam, building capacity in country where independent ratings of mathematics STEM subjects, and higher education by increasing skills in human rights risk are applied, and the their preparedness for a career in educational leadership and governance.
item itself being supplied with reference a STEM-based discipline, either We also provided bursaries scholarships to an external sustainability risk academically or vocationally to the University of Illinois, Purdue assessment of our agricultural raw University and Richland Community Env ironment: to promote environmental materials ingredients.
As set out above, College, US: and ran a US National Merit sustainability and good environmental our sustainable agriculture programme scholarship programme.
management, addressing issues of specifically addresses these issues in our climate change, natural resources and Environment: we are entering our agricultural raw materials ingredient conservation.
fourth year as a corporate partner supply chain see page 40. of the environmental research and Overview of the year In 2015, having used the Sedex social engagement charity Earthwatch In the year ended 31 March 2016, and ethical compliance system www.
org, with whom 1 charitable donations were 529,000 www.
com across our own we have recently launched a four-year 2 2014 423,000. manufacturing facilities for more than research project on the ecology, ten years, we started using it with our Local programmes partnerships conservation and sustainable harvesting agricultural suppliers to promote and We seek to engage with local communities of seaweed in Asia.
We use ingredients assure good practices.
where our principal facilities are located.
derived from seaweed in our Food Employees at each location can make their Systems business.
Reporting concerns own decisions as to the specific projects We encourage our employees and they support and the partnerships that The feedback received from our business partners to come forward with they develop.
As a result, we support a partnerships with external bodies on any information concerning actual or range of initiatives and organisations community involvement contributes to the alleged breaches of our Code.
We provide in our local communities worldwide.
ongoing development of our stakeholder an independent, anonymous third-party engagement in this area.
reporting service through free phone Well-being: we supported a wide variety numbers in 47 countries and by email.
of well-being initiatives this year, We promote this Speak Up service including: child community care centres COMMUNITY SPEND BY AREA across the Group, and externally via in Johannesburg, South Africa: and local Year ended 31 March 2016 4 our corporate website.
Any issues hospices, healthcare and food aid reported are investigated by members charities in Europe and the US.
1 Education 36% 3 2 Well-being 36% of our Speak Up Committee.
1 Education: this year, support provided 3 Environment 26% included enhanced maths and science 4 Other 2% delivery in the Decatur, Lafayette, COMMUNITY Loudon and McIntosh school districts 2 in the US: road safety events for children We have a strong history of community near Mold, UK for the third year running: involvement and during the year we and bursary scholarship funds to help continued to support communities both students access higher education.
local to our operations and globally.
Environment: this year we supported Our approach a number of environmental initiatives, The Strategic Report from page 1 For Tate&Lyle, community involvement including improvement works to local to page 41 of this Annual Report is about having a positive and lasting park and conservation areas.
was approved by the Board on relationship with the community: changing 25 May 2016. lives for the better.
For the last five years Global partnerships we have focused on three specific areas: By order of the Board We have further developed our global Well-being: to provide practical partnership programmes during the year.
Lucie Gilbert assistance in the area of well-being from Company Secretary W ell-being: for the fourth year running, health issues including nutrition through 25 May 2016 we have supported the homeless charity to general welfare, such as supporting Crisis www.
uk in the UK food banks and the Northern Illinois Food Bank www.
Both organisations provide immediate, practical assistance to those in need.
1 Reported on an equity basis.
2 Restated for the adoption of reporting on an equity basis.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 41
