Governance Corporate Governance continued Spencer Stuart prepared a long list comprising a diverse range Corporate of potential candidates meeting the specifications.
The search consultants and the Chairman then identified a subset of this long Responsibility list to meet face-to-face with the Chairman.
Following these initial Committee Report interviews, the Chairman recommended a shortlist of candidates and the Committee set up two working parties to interview the candidates.
The Committee subsequently discussed the results of these interviews and also reviewed the candidates anticipated ability to provide the necessary time commitment to Tate&Lyle.
The Committee recommended that Lars Frederiksen and Sybella William Camp, Chairman of the CR Committee Stanley be appointed as additional non-executive directors.
These recommendations, together with the proposed Committee Dear shareholder memberships, were approved by the Board and they both joined the Board on 1 April 2016.
The Group has no higher priority than safety Director independence and we continued to review the Groups The Committee is responsible for making recommendations safety performance at each meeting.
to the Board concerning the independence of non-executive directors.
The Code provides that the Board should determine We also focused significant time on the implementation of whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely initiatives to improve safety performance.
These are set out to affect, or could appear to affect, a directors judgement and in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 35 to 37. lists tenures in excess of nine years as a circumstance which may appear relevant to its determination.
Liz Airey was appointed to One of the areas for in-depth review this year was our approach to assuring product quality and food safety.
the Board on 1 January 2007 and the Committee, excluding Ms Airey, considered the matter of her independence in light of the The newly-appointed VP Global Quality presented her priorities for enhancing the Groups approach to product Code provision.
The Committee concluded that Ms Airey continues to demonstrate the attributes of an independent non-executive quality, and we reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups quality assurance processes.
This will remain a key area director and there is no evidence whatsoever that the length of her tenure has impacted on her independence.
Accordingly, of focus for the Committee.
the Committee recommended to the Board that it should continue The Board has identified that the risk of breaches in our cyber to consider Ms Airey to be independent.
This recommendation security defences is a Principal risk and we have increased was unanimously agreed by the other members of the Board.
the amount of time we spend on oversight of managements Board diversity actions to protect the Group in this regard.
In addition, an The Board believes that a diverse and inclusive culture is a independent expert provided us with an overview of market driver of superior business performance, growth and innovation.
and leading-edge practice during a separate education The Board has a clear policy on diversity that acknowledges that session for the Board.
the Boards perspective and approach can be greatly enhanced I also continued to hold separate meetings with the President through gender, age and cultural diversity, notwithstanding the Global Operations, VP Safety, the VP Group Audit and overriding principle that each member, and potential member, Assurance, the Global Director of Ethics, and other senior of the Board must be able to demonstrate the skills, experience operational leaders in advance of the Committee meetings.
and knowledge required to contribute to the effectiveness of the These meetings provide me with an invaluable opportunity Board.
Wherever feasible, the Committee uses search firms who to discuss any risk areas and help me to ensure that the are signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Committee has the appropriate information to discharge Search Firms which seeks to address gender diversity on boards its responsibilities effectively.
and best practice for the related search processes.
We also welcomed Lars Frederikson to the Committee As set out elsewhere in this report, when considering the on 1 April 2016.
Lars has considerable experience of food candidates for the two non-executive directorships, the ingredients operations and we are working on a tailored Committee looked at a number of different criteria, including induction programme for him.
Virginia Kamsky ceased to gender, age and cultural diversity and personal attributes such as be a director and a member of the Committee on 1 July 2015. thinking style.
This was reflected in the long lists and shortlists of On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank her for her possible candidates which included individuals from a wide pool, contributions during her tenure.
including those with little listed company board experience.
Looking ahead, we will continue to focus on safety and food With regard to the specific issue of gender diversity, the Board quality.
We will also continue to devote significant time welcomes the decision not to impose in the UK quotas regarding to cyber security.
As at the date of this report, the Board comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and eight non-executive William Camp directors.
Female representation three directors equates to Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 27% of the Board.
Succession planning The Committee reviewed succession plans for senior executive roles and the progress of action plans to address any gaps.
The Committee continues to review progress on a regular basis.
Performance evaluation The Committee undertook a performance evaluation of each member of the Executive Committee and reported its conclusions to the Remuneration Committee.
60 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Corporate Governance 2.
Work undertaken during the year This Corporate Responsibility Committee report is The Committee maintains a calendar of items for consideration at structured as follows: each meeting.
This is regularly reviewed and updated.
In addition to the activities outlined in the statement from the Committee 1.
Committee governance Chairman, during the year and up to the date of this Annual 2.
Work undertaken during the year Report, the work undertaken by the Committee fell under the following main areas: safety: protecting the Groups assets: diversity and inclusion: business practices: environment: 1.
Committee governance community, and internal control and risk management.
Responsibilities Safety The Committee assists the Board by overseeing the Groups At each of its meetings, the Committee discussed an update approach to corporate responsibility, including the effectiveness from the VP Safety covering matters such as the development of policies and procedures relating to a safe working environment, and implementation of initiatives to refresh the Groups approach product quality, environmental performance, employee relations, to personal safety.
In addition, the newly appointed VP Global equal opportunities, legal and ethical matters, and cyber security.
Quality presented her priorities for enhancing the Groups Further details on its responsibilities are in the Committees terms approach to product quality, and the Committee reviewed the of reference, on the Companys website, www.
effectiveness of the Groups quality assurance processes.
Composition For the majority of the financial year under review, the Protecting the Groups assets The Committee is responsible for overseeing the policies and Committee comprised four directors.
Virginia Kamsky resigned from the Board and the Committee with effect from 1 July 2015. processes in place to safeguard the Groups physical assets and intellectual property.
Following the Committees detailed review The Company Secretary, Lucie Gilbert, is the secretary to the Committee.
of the Groups approach to managing intellectual property, as set out in last years report, it continued to monitor the Groups Meetings during the year ongoing initiatives in this regard.
As reported in the statement Meetings generally take place around the time of scheduled Board from the Committee Chairman, the Groups efforts to tackle cyber meetings.
The Committee held four scheduled meetings during security were reviewed more frequently and the Committee also the year and attendance during the year was as follows: participated in a cyber security training session which was facilitated by an independent third party.
Number of Number of meetings Diversity and inclusion Directors as at Date of appointment meetings eligible to The Committee received an update on the actions taken to embed 31 March 2016 to the Committee attended attend the Groups diversity and inclusion initiatives, and the priorities William Camp Chr 1 July 2011 4 4 of management for the next 12 months.
Sir Peter Gershon 1 July 2011 4 4 Business practices Douglas Hurt 1 March 2015 4 4 The Global Director of Ethics provided updates to the Committee Dr Ajai Puri 1 April 2012 4 4 on the progress of the ethics programme.
In addition the Committee Former Committee member considered the effectiveness of the independent confidential 1 Virginia Kamsky 1 January 2014 1 1 reporting line.
The Committee also discussed the Modern Slavery Act and in particular the requirements to publish a statement on 1 Ceased to be a director on 1 July 2015. the Companys website.
The draft statement was considered by the Lars Frederiksen joined the Committee on 1 April 2016.
Committee and subsequently approved by the Board.
Environment The Committee has also met once since the end of the financial The VP Sustainability provided the Committee with updates year and prior to the signing of this Annual Report.
on the Groups environmental performance and initiatives on The Chief Executive and VP Group Audit and Assurance are a regular basis.
normally invited and attend each meeting.
In addition, senior Community finance and operational leaders attend and present to the The Committee discussed the delivery of the annual charitable Committee on an ad hoc basis, depending on the issues and community involvement programme and the proposed being discussed.
programme for the year ending 31 March 2017.
Effectiveness Internal control and risk management The Committee Chairman and Company Secretary led a review The Committee received regular reports from management of the Committees effectiveness and the output was discussed and the VP Group Audit and Assurance in respect of the policies, by the Committee.
This concluded that the Committee continued systems and controls in place in respect of the risks falling within to operate effectively and identified a number of areas for the Committees remit.
The Committee reviewed the output from increased focus during the forthcoming financial year.
the annual review of the effectiveness of controls falling within its terms of reference and then reported to the Board on this review.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 61
