Strategic report BUSINESS MODEL EXPLAINED CONTINUED Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions for period SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING RECOGNITION 1 January to 31 December Category total emissions tonnes CO e 2016 2015 2014 2013 2 We are constituents of the Dow Jones Emissions from combustion Sustainability Europe Index and the FTSE4Good Index series, the leading of fuel scope 1 17,983 17,768 16,436 16,107 responsible investment indices.
Emissions from electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased We also participate in the CDP climate change for own use scope 2 report and in the CDP water benchmark.
a market-based method 10,827 12,947 13,326 14,229 The latter assesses companies corporate water stewardship practices and performance.
Total scope1 and2 emissions 28,809 30,716 29,672 30,336 Emissions per 100 sqm In addition, we are a member of Next ofcompleted homes Generation, a rigorous and detailed scope1 and2 2.13 2.40 2.56 2.82 sustainability performance benchmark of the UKs largest homebuilders.
Percentage reduction in direct carbon emissions intensity More information about our performance scope1 and2 since 2013 24% 15% 9% in the above benchmarks is available in our Sustainability Report 2016.
Notes: Data is provided as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e for all operations.
2 Scope 1 and 2 emissions are from our sites, ofces, show homes and sales areas, plots before sale and car eet.
Data on our estimated scope 3 emissions is available in our Sustainability Report 2016 categories: purchased goods and services, business travel, waste generated in operations and fuel and energy related activities.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, data gathered to full our requirements under the Mandatory Carbon Reporting MCR requirements, and emission factors from the Governments GHG Conversion Factors for our corporate reporting.
a We are now using the market-based method of the revised version of the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance for calculating our scope 2 emissions.
This allows us to reect the carbon intensity of the electricity purchased in our carbon footprint.
We have recalculated our data for previous years to reect this.
We have reported on the emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 apart from the exclusions noted.
The reported sources fall within our Consolidated Financial Statements and are for emissions over which we have financial control.
We do not have responsibility for any emissions sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
The following sources of emissions were excluded or part-excluded from this report: Fugitive emissions refrigerant gases : excluded on the basis of expected immateriality and difficulty in acquiring data Gas and electricity of part-exchange properties: excluded on the basis of immateriality due to very few completions of this type Certain joint venture properties: where Taylor Wimpey was not part of the handover process.
In these cases other homebuilders have captured MCR-related data See our Carbon Reporting Methodology Statement for more detail on our calculations at www.
co. uk corporate sustainability 36 Taylor Wimpey plc We commissioned an external review of our approach to sustainable Environmentally sustainable homes procurement during 2016.
This identied a number of opportunities New homes are considerably more energy-efficient than older housing to strengthen our approach in areas such as supplier criteria and stock, and we are committed to building increasingly energy-efficient engagement which we will be reviewing during 2017.
We joined the homes in line with Government policy and Building Regulations.
Our fabric Supply Chain Sustainability School, a membership organisation for first approach to energy efficiency, which concentrates on highly insulated companies in the construction, housebuilding, facilities management and walls and windows, helps owners to save energy and money.
Through our infrastructure sectors, to help us develop our approach and share Project 2020 research initiative, we have been piloting smart and intelligent information with suppliers.
home technologies which can make it easier for customers to control and reduce home energy use and save money on their energy bills.
We are The Company welcomes the aims and objectives of the Modern Slavery rolling out smart thermostats that allow customers to control their heating Act 2015 and takes its responsibilities under the Act very seriously.
As part and hot water remotely in six regional businesses as an option in of this, during 2016 we strengthened oversight of standards in our supply new homes.
chain to make sure we are selecting partners who share our commitment to responsible business.
We will be publishing our first Modern Slavery Act Our Greenhouse Gas emissions GHG Statement on our website on 17 March 2017.
We will be following up with suppliers identied as higher risk for further engagement.
Further We continue to take steps to improve our approach to climate change information can be found on page 100 and on our website.
We have reduced scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions intensity by 24% since 2013, including through our Our contributions to the environment energy reduction programmes in place in our ofces, on our sites and within our show homes and sales areas and by purchasing green tariff We strive to keep any adverse effects that our activities may have on local and lower carbon electricity.
We are close to meeting our target of a 25% environments and communities, such as pollution and ecological damage, intensity reduction by 2018. to a minimum and to make a positive contribution to the environment of the areas we build in.
We updated our greenhouse gas data to reect the Greenhouse Gas Protocol market-based method, introduced in 2015.
This allows the We acknowledge the global threat of climate change and are committed carbon intensity of the electricity purchased to be reected in our toreducing our emissions, energy use and waste and reviewing water use.
greenhouse gas footprint, whereas our previous methodology relied on We have a comprehensive Waste and Resource Strategy and Action Plan the UK grid average intensity.
We have adjusted our 2013 baseline and for our housing operations and our supply chain.
We focus on seeing data for previous years to reect this.
This work was supported by the materials as resources, using them more efficiently through design and on Carbon Trust.
Our Global Greenhouse Gas emissions data is on page 36. site recovery, and keeping generated waste to a minimum.
Our scope 1 and 2 data has been veried by the Carbon Trust for a During 2016 our construction waste increased to 5.06 tonnes per 100 number of years.
During 2016 we achieved the Carbon Trust Standard for square metres of completed build 2015: 4.78 tonnes.
Our previous our overall approach to carbon management, including our policy, strategy research indicated that nationally there has been upward pressure on and verication of our data and processes.
We are the first homebuilder to waste generation gures, however we have continued our internal achieve this.
investigation on what is happening across our industry and within Taylor Wimpey, including waste audits.
