o DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE PEOPLE LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT Individual performance is reviewed bi-annually with each The incredible talent, enduring commitment and passion of team member to discuss personal and career development and the Ted Baker team are key factors in the success of the Group.
to set, and assess performance against, goals and objectives We encourage team members with learning and development linked to personal growth and business development, as well opportunities, nurture their growth and potential, and recognise as Teds environmental and social commitments.
We invest in and reward their contributions.
"This is illustrated by the energy training which ranges from outsourced specialist and technical and inspired performance of our team who drive innovation skills training to in-house developed ""Hand Made by Ted"" and the Groups growth."
bespoke courses offered by the Ted Academy focusing on management and leadership skills, brand awareness and selfREWARD AND RECOGNITION awareness.
Distinct career paths exist across the Group and Remuneration is reviewed annually and a benchmarking inter-departmental and international transfers play a large part analysis is undertaken against market intelligence to ensure in retaining and growing talent as well as ensuring the Ted story we remain competitive and commensurate across all areas of translates across the Globe.
Our manpower and succession the business.
For employees in each territory where the Group plans are monitored and evaluated regularly to highlight skills operates, we offer reward and recognition schemes in line with and learning gaps, anticipate vacancies and harness talent.
local legislative and market requirements.
"Our reward packages During the period we launched Teds Extraordinary Diploma include bonus schemes linked to sales targets and individual which is an apprenticeship programme for ""Learning at the and corporate performance."
"We encourage all UK employees School of Ted""."
Due to its success a second programme is to join our Save As You Earn share scheme which provides planned for 2016 17.
Ted with confidence in the commitment of its team.
Ted also provides a Long Term Incentive Plan 'LTIP' for key senior DIVERSITY employees throughout the business spanning a three year award The Group believes in respecting individuals and their period.
The LTIP is currently in its third tranche of issue and it rights in the workplace, and that diversity supports the dynamic is anticipated that this will continue on a rolling yearly award of our teams to deliver success.
With this in mind, specific basis to enhance total annual reward and support retention.
policies are in place setting out our stance and commitment During the period we celebrated the fifth year of Wisdom to managing harassment and bullying, whistle blowing and Awards, our scheme that recognises long serving members of equality and diversity.
Our team represents a wide and diverse the team and provides a chance for them to celebrate and share workforce from all backgrounds, sexual orientation, nationality, their Ted stories.
We support sponsorship of visa applications, where appropriate, to retain specific talent within the business.
With continued overseas expansion our workforce is becoming more diverse and we respect cultural difference and actively seek to learn about each territory we operate within.
34 o o DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Our commitment to diversity across the Group continues and consideration to diversity and gender is given with a view to appointing the best placed individual for each new role.
The charts below demonstrate the gender split across the Board of Directors, the Group's leadership and senior management teams and global employees as at 30 January 2016.
2016 2015 MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL Ted Baker Plc Board of Directors 5 1 6 5 1 6 Executive Committee and other senior managers 34 54 88 27 39 66 Global employees 1,108 2,168 3,276 995 1,842 2,837 UK North America Europe Asia MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE TOTAL Ted Baker Plc Board of Directors 5 1 - - - - - - 6 Executive Committee and other senior managers 21 31 9 14 1 4 3 5 88 Global employees 695 1,226 244 456 111 358 58 128 3,276 HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE CULTURE Our duty and commitment to the well-being of our team Our brand values are important in everything we do and are is supported by activity such as private healthcare, occupational instilled in team members at their initial induction and onboarding health, health seminars and funding for flu jabs.
During the period, and at Teducation sessions with the Founder and Chief Executive we conducted Wellness health assessment days and we offer health telling the story behind the brand.
Employees are encouraged to and fitness classes to our team members at our Tedquarters.
"We always ask: ""Would Ted do it that way?"""
We continue employees' run a Childcare Voucher Scheme in the UK and an Employee cultural journeys through a host of varied events.
Assistance Programme in the UK and USA further supports our genuine concern for the well-being of our team.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT The prevention and identification of risks and accidents is The Group places considerable value on the involvement supported by an external Health and Safety service provider and of its team members and continues to keep them informed ongoing training of management teams.
The Group employs a on matters affecting them and the Group, communicating dedicated Health and Safety team to strengthen our knowledge in a way that aligns with the brand tone of voice and actively and commitment in this area of the business.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, BroadcasTED communications, Talk to EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES Ted sessions, team member surveys and e-postcard messages Applications for employment by persons with disabilities from Ted.
Team representatives are consulted regularly on a are always fully and fairly considered, focusing on the aptitudes wide range of matters affecting team members current and and abilities of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members future interests.
Team members are regularly informed of the of the Ted team becoming disabled during their employment, Groups performance and any factor affecting its performance every effort is made to ensure that their employment with during the year, in addition to business development initiatives the Group continues and that where appropriate reasonable to maintain interest and encourage participation.
adjustments are made and relevant training and education of the wider team is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of persons with disabilities should, as far as possible, be identical with that of other team members.
35 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 o Entici Seductivus
