o DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY OUR SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS We believe in three very important areas of sustainability: At Ted Baker we believe in being open and honest in 1.
Protect: The Group is committed to protecting the the way we do business, this includes doing the right thing environment within our properties and throughout our entire by all of our stakeholders throughout our supply chain and supply chain by reducing the use of resources and increasing operating in a fair and sustainable manner.
We approach our efficiencies wherever possible: social, environmental and ethical commitments 'SEE' with 2.
Product: The Group is committed to purchasing the best the same focus and attention to detail that permeates the possible products for use and sale within and throughout rest of the business.
To ensure that we continue to meet our Ted and associated businesses at the same time as ensuring responsibilities in these important areas we designed a three that the people and environment within the supply chain are 3 pronged plan, named Ted, in 2012.
Our Global Sustainability treated well: and Strategy has been developed and continues to be advanced and 3.
Practice: The Group is committed to practicing what it improved ensuring that every department is included.
preaches by implementing a robust strategy to achieve our goals and targets by educating and inspiring our teams.
HOW WE WORK The Chief Operating Officer has been given specific responsibility for overseeing the formulation of the Groups policies and procedures for managing risks arising from social, environmental and ethical matters.
In addition, the Board has tasked four members of the Executive Committee to oversee specific areas of our SEE agenda for the Group.
These Executive Committee members participate because of the relevance of their departments to our ongoing commitment in these areas Brand Communication, Product Design, Production and Special Projects Interior Design.
Our full time Teds Conscience Team co-ordinates these areas and the Groups cross-functional team which is responsible for addressing SEE concerns of the Group the Teds Conscience Team.
30 o o DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS identifies improvement actions that business could take in As part of our commitment to Protect, the Group has this area.
engaged in a number of environmental projects during the course of the year: ETHICAL AND SUSTAINABLE SOURCING We continue to participate in the Carbon Disclosure As part of our commitment to Product, we place great Project to measure and disclose our greenhouse gas importance on ethical and environmental sourcing within emissions and climate change strategies.
We believe that our products should be produced score increased from 89% in the previous year to 93%: in factories that are committed to providing a fair and safe All of our business travel within Scopes 1 and 3 is environment for their workers.
Our trusted partners within the CarbonNeutral.
This means that the unavoidable supply chain are one of our most valuable assets.
emissions generated by air, road and rail journeys, required All Ted Baker suppliers are governed by our Ethical Code to visit our stores, trustees and suppliers, have been offset of Conduct.
We revise our Code of Conduct regularly to in full through the purchase of carbon credits from verified ensure that it reflects legislative changes and make sure that carbon reduction projects: our suppliers continue to make improvements.
The Code We are constantly reviewing the waste our business is based on international conventions such as: The Ethical generates in an effort to achieve our overall aim of sending Trade Initiative Base Code, The United Nations Universal no waste to landfill.
We participate in the Wastepack Declaration of Human Rights and The Fundamental Compliance Scheme as part of the Producer Responsibility Conventions of the International Labour Organisation, Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations 1997, and and can be found at http: www.
com continue to reduce unnecessary packaging: media Files T Ted-Baker documents ted-ethical-codeWe work with local schools and charities to recycle as of-conduct-2016.
pdf much waste from head office as we can: Through our partnership with MADE-BY, a non-profit We have been working with charity Newlife to ensure multi-stakeholder initiative set up to improve sustainability that all faulty garments returned to store do not end up in within the fashion industry, our Social Scorecard for 2014 landfill.
Since March 2014 all faulty returned garments are was released during the year and can be found at http: sent to Newlife for re-sale as secondhand garments: www.
org modetracker scorecards ted-baker Through relationships with charities Oxfam and Newlife The scorecard shows an increase in the percentage of product we have been able to ensure that our end of life garments sourced from MADE-BY A or B benchmarked factories.
are utilised in the best way, raising over 325,000 and Our MADE-BY Scorecard for 2014 is the last in this diverting over 24 tonnes of waste from landfill: format as MADE-BY have developed a new progress We are part of the Sustainable Clothing Action Plan tracking tool, MODE Tracker.
It is aimed at supporting 'SCAP', a Department for Environment, Food and fashion brands to become more sustainable, focusing on Rural Affairs 'DEFRA' sponsored action plan, organised eight areas of fashion business, including People, Product to improve the sustainability of clothing throughout its and Own Operations.
Our first Scorecard will be released lifecycle by bringing together industry, government and in April 2016. third parties.
SCAP members collaborate to develop sector-wide targets along with the tools and guidance necessary to achieve them.
As an SCAP 2020 signatory, we are challenged to reduce carbon, water and the amount of waste generated or consumed by our products by 15% by 2020: We have introduced internal sustainable fibre targets to our 2017 collections to ensure that we are meeting our SCAP commitment: and As part of SCAP, we participate in the Metrics Group.
The Group identifies the key industry metrics that businesses should measure and is working on a tool to measure baseline carbon, water and waste footprints.
It also 31 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 o o DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE COMMUNITY We keep two Buckfast bee colonies on the roof of our In order to Practice our goals and achieve our targets we London head office from which we had a hugely successful place great importance on the Teducation of our employees honey harvest for the sixth year running.
to support the community in a number of ways.
Throughout the year we have supported various charities and taken part in GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS valuable and exciting projects.
The Group has, for a number of years, participated in the Our employees are our greatest asset.
To make the most Carbon Disclosure Project and is now required, in accordance of their innovation we have Teds Conscience Team to with The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors encourage colleagues to be more environmentally and Report Regulations 2013 the 'Regulations', to report its socially aware in both their jobs and their personal lives.
Teds Conscience issues a monthly DO SOMETHING The Group has adopted a greenhouse gas reporting policy email initiating sustainable and environmental activities and a management system based on the ISO 14064-1:2006 and competitions to inspire everyone in our head office.
methodology, which has been used to calculate the Groups We continue to encourage our employees to donate unwanted Scope 1 and 2 emissions in the period for activities within the items through our Oxfam Collects Collection Point.
financial control of the Group.
In December 2014 we started to collect donations for In measuring the Groups greenhouse gas emissions, all leftover restaurant food, we chose to donate the proceeds the Groups stores, warehouses and head offices around the to Magic Breakfast, a charity that provides underprivileged world were taken into account.
The space occupied by the school children in London with much needed breakfast Group within concession stores is excluded from Scope 1 and before school.
We have so far raised enough money to 2 calculations because the Group has neither financial nor provide 10,340 Magic Breakfasts.
operational control over a concession area.
Such emissions are We donated product and raised money for other charities included in the Groups Scope 3 figures which are published in during the year including The Tope Project, a charity that our annual Carbon Disclosure Project Report.
organises Christmas dinners for care leavers in London.
The Groups GHG emissions during the period are disclosed in the table below.
2016 2015 2 2 Scope 1 Direct CO emissions tonnes CO e 138 220 2 2 Scope 2 Indirect CO emissions tonnes CO e 4,062 4,538 2 Total tonnes CO e emissions 4,200 4,758 2 tCO e per sq ft 0.012 0.014 2 tCO e per '000 sales 0.009 0.012 GHG emissions for the year ended 30 January 2016 have been calculated using the appropriate 2015 UK Government Conversions Factors for Company Reporting.
THE BRIBERY ACT 2010 The Board continues to proactively review the Groups procedures to ensure they are sufficiently robust to prevent corruption.
MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 Ted condemns the practice of Modern Slavery.
Pursuant to the Companys Code of Conduct, suppliers are required to ensure that all reasonable efforts are employed to eliminate Modern Slavery and deceptive practices in the recruitment of workers in their operations, in their subcontractors and within their supply chains including raw material producers.
The Group will issue a slavery and human trafficking statement in the next period in accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
