Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT We are conscious of the role we have to play in minimising the environmental impact of our activities.
We operate an energy efficiency helpline to provide advice to Members on how they can reduce their energy usage: we enable qualifying Members to access free home insulation: we actively promote Feed-In Tariffs: and we encourage Members to monitor their energy usage by providing regular meter readings.
Since moving to an online Member application process, we have increasingly reduced the amount of printed marketing materials we are using, and seen a significant increase in the proportion of new Members choosing not to receive a paper bill each month.
We participate in a waste paper recycling programme, with a certificated saving of 337 trees and 45,720kg of CO2 during the year 2015: 457 trees and 61,330kg of CO2 : we also recycle all of our cardboard, and use only fsc-certified paper.
We recycle both mobile phones and toner cartridges.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS STATEMENT The greenhouse gas GHG emissions statement below provides a summary of the Groups greenhouse gas carbon emissions from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016.
It gives a summary of emissions from fuel combustion and the operation of our facilities which include our offices and company cars, scope 1, and from our purchased electricity use during the year scope 2.
We have adopted the operational control approach, as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition 2004, therefore emissions associated with our Members energy usage, the activities of our independent distributors and the supply of energy from Npower are not included in this statement as they are outside the Groups operational control.
Global GHG emissions TOTAL EMISSIONS TONNES CO2e 2015-2016 2014-2015 Emissions from fuel combustion and fugitive 115.2 34.8 refrigerants scope 1 Emissions from electricity, heat, steam and 2,419.9 903.1 cooling purchased for own use scope 2 Total emissions 2,535.1 937.9 Intensity: Emissions per full time employee FTE 2.87 tCO2e FTE 1.20 tCO2e FTE Note: The significant increase in total emissions between reporting years was driven by a move to a new main office, Network HQ formerly Merit House.
While Network HQ was refurbished to high energy efficiency standards, it occupies more than three times as much floor space as the previous office, and thus has a significantly higher energy footprint.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Methodology We have reported on all the emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our own business activities over which we have operational control.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, data gathered from our own operations, and emissions factors from UK Governments Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2015.
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT During the year Breast Cancer Campaign and Prostate Cancer UK were our joint Charity Partners and our Staff, Members and Partners raised a total of approximately 82,000 during the year.
This year, with the participation of our Staff and Partners, we chose our new Charity Partner, Macmillan Cancer Support, and we look forward to supporting the activities of our Staff, Members and Partners in helping raise money for this very worthwhile cause.
In addition, at a more local level, we have supported our neighbourhood, by raising funds for our local food bank, the Colindale Foodbank.
HUMAN RIGHTS This report does not contain information about any policies of the Group in relation to human rights issues as it is not considered relevant to understanding the development, performance or position of the Groups business.
MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT The Board has approved a Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement in compliance with section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, which is available to view on the Companys website here: www.
co. uk legal  STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL The Strategic Report, set out on pages 1 to 36, which incorporates the Financial and Operating Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Financial Review, Principal Risks and Uncertainties, People and Organisation and Corporate Responsibility, has been duly approved by the Board.
By order of the Board David Baxter Company Secretary 13 June 2016 36 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016
