Environmental and social review Every little help makes a big difference its the value we live by to ensure we serve our customers, colleagues and their communities a little better every day.
Our approach customers and colleagues to make Becoming signatories of the UNGC is Our purpose is to serve shoppers a little healthier choices: reduce food waste another sign of our commitment to these better every day and an important part of wherever it occurs and tackle food poverty areas and we are proud of the action delivering this purpose is about ensuring with any surpluses: and work with our wehave taken to date.
we tackle the social and environmental suppliers to source responsibly and challenges affecting the communities develop sustainable supply chains.
Our governance weoperate in and source from.
We have a clear and robust governance Our reporting framework for corporate responsibility.
This This year we reviewed our third value to This report looks at our business across is provided in two ways: internally, through ensure we capture the bigger impact we allof our functions and sets out our our Board Committees: and externally, can have on these challenges through the focus:our corporate responsibility is through advice and critical feedback.
cumulative impact of small, thoughtful a fundamental part of this.
After consulting our colleagues Our Corporate Responsibility Committee wedecided Every little help makes a big Rather than a separate, printed corporate ischaired by our PLC Chairman, John Allan.
difference was the best way of articulating responsibility report, we publish further More information on the activities of the what we are trying to achieve.
It sits details on our corporate responsibility, Corporate Responsibility Committee this alongside our other two values: No one ourpolices and our key data online.
year can be found inthe corporate tries harder for customers and We treat governance section on page 28. people how they want to be treated.
It This year, we became signatories of the reminds us nothing is too small covering United Nations Global Compact UNGC the little things we do every day as well as an initiative that encourages businesses linking these things together to contribute worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially to the bigger global initiatives inwhich responsible policies, and to report on their Visit www.
com society we are involved.
The initiative is centred for information on: on a commitment to 10 principles in Our approach If our colleagues live this value they can theareas of human rights, labour rights, Ongoing activities allplay a role in making it easier for both environment and anti-corruption.
Our latest case studies 20 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Our people Our approach Respecting human rights As a result we have been developing our In order to serve shoppers a little better We always respect the human rights own capability to identify human rights every day, we need to continue to provide of our customers, colleagues and the risk through a due diligence process that our colleagues with the best support people who work in our supply chains.
looks end-to-end in the supply chain and andopportunities.
We have introduced We are committed to upholding basic seeks to address systemic challenges, such more flexible working, enhanced training human rights and fully support the UN as modern slavery, wherever they occur.
opportunities and have a more open Universal Declaration of Human Rights, andtransparent way of working.
the International Labour Organization Rather than relying only on an audit Core Conventions and the UN Guiding model, we will be looking to focus our Despite challenging times within our Principles on Business and Human Rights.
resource on collaborating with supplier business, our colleagues have remained We are a founding member of the Ethical partners, civil society, union and worker the beating heart of Tesco and have Trading Initiative and our industry-leading representation groups, and government bodies.
We will also be looking to develop continued to put customers first while team of labour-standards experts support new grievance mechanisms.
Every day our suppliers to work towards fully this is evident with colleagues going above implementing its Base Code.
We are now developing risk metrics to and beyond their roles one colleague, assess potential human rights impacts, Susan McGuckin, even helped deliver We want everyone to have their human and a range of tools and KPIs to help us ababy in the car park of our Dundee rights upheld and we know our customers, address and, if necessary, remedy any Kingsway store!
colleagues and suppliers do too.
We are doing this work in close consultation with the Ethical Trading Throughout our transformation at Tesco, Our customers want to buy great products, Initiative, NGOs and trade unions.
we have made sure colleagues are the first produced safely and responsibly.
By to know of any changes within the business protecting human rights we can give Governance and monitoring that will affect them.
This commitment customers this confidence, as well as Our Company-wide Code of Business tobe open and transparent will continue ensuring we are a good neighbour Conduct, supported by a training once the transformation is complete.
programme, helps colleagues follow keypolicies.
This includes a section Diversity in the broadest sense remains We have strong, consistent people policies onourapproach to human rights.
critical to our business, and the ratio of designed to make Tesco a great place to male to female colleagues at year-end work: a business where everyone is welcome Our Governance Committees consider is outlined in the table below.
and feels confident to be themselves in financial and non-financial risks to asafe environment.
ourbusiness and the Compliance and We believe that monitoring the pay gap Corporate Responsibility Committees between men and women is an important We continue to build strong, trusted in particular consider risks related to step towards ensuring everyone is fairly partnerships with our suppliers so we ourHuman Rights Policy, which are rewarded for their work and enjoys the candeliver great, safe products that maintained on our Company risk register.
same opportunities, which is why weve areresponsibly produced.
monitored gender pay since 2002 and We have a large number of in-house, were one of the first companies to Moving from compliance to due diligence locally based labour-standards experts voluntarily report it publicly in 2012.
Historically, our Ethical Trading programme around the world who work with our was based on audits by independent suppliers every day to get to the bottom The government has published draft companies, with compliance-based of the real issues in the supply chain, and regulations requiring large employers corrective action plans followed up by offer support to address these issues.
to report their gender pay gap from 2018, thesame audit companies.
Over time, we which may mean changes to the way we realised we could be even more effective We now have protector lines for both currently calculate our gender pay gap.
by changing this model, particularly when colleagues and suppliers so any concerns Wehave therefore postponed calculating the most important human rights challenges with business conduct can be raised these figures while the government often occur in the lower tiers of long, global efficiently and confidentially.
recent data from 2014 shows our overall Visit www.
com humanrights gender pay gap was less than 1%.
for more detail on our full policy Our diversity Male Female Board of Directors 8 73% 3 27% Senior managers Directors 506 76% 156 24% Senior managers Directors and managers 3,119 68% 1,490 32% All employees 205,795 43% 270,658 57% Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 21 Environmental and social review continued To show how every little help can make a big Own operations Another vital area of work for us is the difference, you can look at our work on both waywe tackle food waste within our ownoperations.
The Community Food health andfood waste.
Connection CFC, run in partnership withFareShare FoodCloud, aims to deliver ouroverall goal at Tesco to never throw Health our reformulation work where for example awayfood that could be eaten.
The CFC on soft drinks we have removed 4.6 billion programme allows stores to alert local We want to make it easier forcustomers, calories and over 1,480 tonnes of sugar.
charities and community groups to how colleagues and our wider community to much surplus food is available at the live more healthily.
One way we can do this Food waste endofeach day, through the FareShare is by creating partnerships with health FoodCloud app.
Charities simply respond experts like Diabetes UK and the British We have continued to make progress on by text message to confirm that they will Heart Foundation that support prevention trying to prevent food waste from farm collect the surplus food.
and cure for the biggest health challenges tofork.
We have now expanded the CFC to over With suppliers 100 large stores and we expect to be able By working together, were combining Our overall approach has always been to roll out around 100 stores a month to thecharities expertise in health with tomake as much use of the edible crop bein all large stores by the end of 2016.
Tescos ability to reach people in local aspossible and weve included produce Wehave been donating surplus food from communities across the UK.
This gives ofdifferent shapes and sizes for many our distribution centres since 2012.
In total, usaunique opportunity to encourage years now.
In some cases, we believe nearly 9 million meals have been donated thenation to make healthier choices that our specifications can be broadened with over 4.6 million in the past 12 months.
intheway they live their lives.
This year to accommodate more of the crop.
This We are confident that with CFC we now wehave raised 7.89m and this is going year, we introduced a new range to use have the solution to donate this food to towards prevention projects and parts ofthe crop that currently fall outside people in need and stop it going to waste.
The range will begin with potatoes and parsnips and we plan to When you add the food provided from We have also now reached over 1.3 million add a number of other fruit and vegetables.
our surplus redistribution work to the food children as part of The Tesco Eat Happy In addition, were developing a range of donated by our customers and topped up Project, which includes Lets Cook courses new ways to change how we forecast and by Tesco through the Neighbourhood and Farm to Fork Trails.
These are helping orderto help suppliers reduce waste.
Food Collection, we have donated food children to learn more about where their For example, we are trialling flexible equivalent to over 18 million meals to help food comes from and to obtain the skills ordering, where we work with our growers people in need in the UK.
toget more involved in cooking at home.
to offer them a range of volumes to supply, And to help customers we have continued rather than a specific number.
com ar2016 to see more about our Community Food Connection programme 22 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information International waste to animal feed with the remainder Tesco UK food waste by category breakdown Tesco is a global retailer and we have sent to anaerobic digestion and incineration % breakdown of total tonnage value programmes in place to tackle food waste with energy recovery.
We have not sent in each of our markets.
All of our Central any food waste direct to landfill since 2009.
European markets are donating surplus food to local foodbank partners and we The food waste figure for this year are planning trials in Malaysia and Thailand.
showsanet increase of 4% on last year We are also keen to show leadership on the forinformation on previous years data and issue at a global level, which is why Dave calculations please see www.
com Lewis, our Chief Executive, has agreed to foodwastefigures.
The benefit of collecting chair Champions 12.3: a coalition of leaders and analysing our data is that it enables from government, business, research usto highlight where exactly increases institutions and civil society.
The coalition have occurred so we can develop plans Bakery 37% Meat, Fish, Poultry & Eggs 5% Produce 24% Beers, Wines & Spirits 3% will be dedicated to accelerating progress toaddress hotspot areas.
Whilst we have Chilled 16% Frozen 2% towards achieving the UN Sustainable seen an increase overall we have also seen Impulse 6% Other 1% Grocery 6% Development Goal Food Waste Target reductions in some categories.
Where 12.3 to halve per capita global food waste wehave seen an increase in a particular at the retail and consumer level and reduce category we will work with the teams to food losses along production and supply ensure we add to the programmes already chains including post-harvest losses by 2030. in place across our stores to find ways to reduce this level of waste.
Importantly, UK operations food waste data we have also invested in a nationwide We are the only UK retailer to publish rollout of Community Food Connection independently assured food waste data for with FareShare FoodCloud, which will our own operations and we will continue to redirect millions of meals of Tesco surplus do so annually.
In 2015 16, 59,400 tonnes food to charity by the end of 2017. of food went to waste, primarily in our stores which is equivalent to 1% of the number Visit www.
com disclosures for more detail onour methodologies, of food products we sold in our stores assurance statements andother disclosures over the same period.
The basis for our definition of food waste is that if we are unable to redistribute surplus food to human consumption it becomes waste.
Last year we sent 17,800 tonnes of bakery Greenhouse gas emissions Our carbon footprint is calculated have reduced our net carbon intensity per according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
ft. of retail and distribution floor space Our net carbon footprint in 2015 16 was by 1.8% compared to last year, and 41.7% 5.1 million tonnes of CO e. This year we since 2006 07.
ft. of stores and distribution centres 39.21 39.91 67.20 2 Tesco has historically only presented performance using the location-based method for calculating Scope 2 emissions.
The market-based method is shown in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Guidance and all intensity, net and gross emissions shown are calculated using the location-based method.
This year we have also updated our historic emissions to account for business changes and conversion factor updates.
For further details see www.
Independent limited assurance for both food waste and greenhouse gas emissions data has been provided by KPMG LLP using the assurance standards ISAE 3000 and for data marked with, ISAE 3410.
KPMG has issued an unqualified opinion over the data highlighted in this report with a and and their respective full assurance opinions are available at: www.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 23
