26 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY MAKING A DIFFERENCE WITH EVERY HOLIDAY Our goal is to make a difference with PEO PEO PEO PE PL PL PLE E E everyholiday, working at every step to change the way we operate to limit environmental impacts whilst maximisingthe social and economic benefits travel can bring.
The debate and context around business purpose is changing and expectations of us as a business are growing.
We understand the importance of sustainability to the business and realise that we can do much more and can make more impact for our people, our customers and the destinations in which we we operate.
We accepted his findings in November 2015 Outside of the work we have been doing Now is the time to re-focus our sustainability and drew up a detailed plan to address all following the Justin King review, Thomas Cook strategy, so that we can enhance the of the recommendations.
However, the hard has continued to build on its long tradition companys resilience to the external drivers work to change the culture in the business of socialcommitment and charitable activity.
for change and customer experience.
and to make us more customer-centric in our We work to create thriving communities We launched a review of the Thomas Cook approach had already started months before.
where our employees live and work, as approach to sustainability in June 2016 and wellas where our customers travel.
plan to launch a new strategy in 2017.
One year on and we have made huge changes to our processes and procedures, By collaborating with industry partners, HOW WE MANAGE but also, crucially, to the culture of the supporting destinations and investing in SUSTAINABILITY business.
We have more to do, but our people communities, we are ensuring a high-quality have embraced the challenge, using the service for residents and visitors alike.
We see sustainability as the responsibility findings of the review to catalyse change of every employee and an activity which The Thomas Cook Group corporate charity, across our business and improve the holiday requires strong leadership, starting with The Thomas Cook Childrens Charity, aims experience for our customers.
the Chief Executive and his direct reports.
to improve childrens lives by working The Board retains responsibility for the Changes include investment in our customer with partner organisations.
Its remit gives long-term success of the Group and the service teams, the launch of the 24 Hour particular emphasis to the provision of safe Health, Safety and Environmental Committee Satisfaction Promise and a thorough review clean drinking water, improving education, has oversight of the consistent policy for of our health and safety auditing programme, well-being and healthcare facilities.
managing health, safety and environmental including the introduction of annual audits The Charity has raised over 5 million in the risks to the Groups businesses.
across all 3,500 of our selected partner last five years through a number of sources, hotels, starting in summer 2017.
More information about how we work largely through customer donations to payroll towards making a difference with In parallel, we have been working closely giving and staff fundraising initiatives.
each holiday can be found in our 2016 with Sharon Wood, the mother of Bobbi Child safety and protection is central to our Sustainability Report which is available and Christi Shepherd, to establish the business and the Thomas Cook Group is fully atthomascookgroup.
Safer Tourism Foundation with the aim of committed to the UN Convention on the Rights improving the safety of all holidaymakers of the Child.
We believe it is our responsibility OUR CUSTOMERS AND travelling abroad.
We appointed Belinda to promote and safeguard childrens welfare COLLEAGUES Phipps, an experienced consultant and and are committed to The Code an industryformer Chief Executive of the National In 2015, we commissioned Justin King to driven international code of conduct.
Childbirth Trust NCT, to help ensure we get conduct an independent review of our the Foundation on a firm footing and are We understand Thomas Cooks operations business.
This examined our customer, pleased that Linda McAvan, MEP, has joined affect individuals and communities around the health, safety, welfare and crisis the Board as an independent trustee.
Thomas Cook operates a Human Rights management practices, following the deaths forward to the Foundation launching its first policy across all parts of the business and is of Bobbi and Christi Shepherd in Corfu.
projects in 2017. working with NGOs and other partners within the tourism industry to better understand and mitigate the impact of the business.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 27 PL PLA A ANET NET MANAGING OUR and materials wherever possible: reducing our production of waste: and sourcing or ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT producing renewable energy.
The environmental impact of the travel industry is considerable, with around 5% of We have reported on all the emission sources all global carbon emissions coming from the required under the Companies Act 2006 travel and tourism sector.
Strategic report and Directors reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within Thomas Cook Airlines is among the most our annual report and accounts.
We only One of the most efficient efficient in Europe, with only 74.4g CO per 2 airlines in Europe have responsibility for the emission sources passenger kilometre, compared with an that are included in our annual report average for the five largest European airlines and accounts.
of 90.11g CO per passenger kilometre last 2 g 74.4 year.
We are constantly working to make We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate our airline more efficient, collaborating with Accounting and Reporting Standard revised the industry to share best practice and edition, data from EU Emission Trading CO investing in the next generation of aircraft Scheme and emission factors from the 2 per pax to provide better performance and improved UK Government GHG Conversion Factors customer experience.
In 2016 we have continued to invest in our airline fleet.
Each of our upgraded aircraft delivers greater comfort and a superior experience for passengers but also reduces weight allowing us to achieve greater fuel efficiency.
We also work to reduce our environmental impact across our business and supply chain.
This includes reducing the use of water in our hotels, using sustainable products 2016 2015 Tonnes of CO2 Tonnes of CO2 Greenhouse gas emissions equivalent equivalent Total Scope 1 Direct emissions 4,091,159 4,026,958 Total Scope 2 Indirect emissions 21,045 29,403 Total emissions 4,112,203 4,056,361 Total emissions million turnover 526 517 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 28 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED R RES ES S S S S SP P P P PO PO PO PO PO PON P P P PON ON O ON N N NSI SIB SIB S SIB IBLE LE LE LE LE L L B BUS B BUS US US US U U US S S SIN IN IN IN IN IN NE N NE ES SS SS SS ACTING AS A RESPONSIBLE SAFEGUARDING ANIMAL We remain BUSINESS WELFARE Sustainability at Thomas Cook has a long Experiencing the local environment and committed to history and the business has historically wildlife-viewing opportunities can be a working responsibly taken a strong stance in response to key part of many of our customers holiday sustainability risks and opportunities and experiences.
We recognise that these and ethically in all gained a strong reputation within its sector.
activities have a socio-economic benefit As a large consumer business, the trust of and can help to promote biodiversity and areas of our our customers is key.
As part of our drive education initiatives.
to put customer at the heart ofeverything business, and we However, we also are acutely aware of the we do, sustainability is integral to our welfare of animals impacted by tourism.
expect the same This year we took the decision to commission animal welfare experts Global Spirit to from our suppliers.
PROMOTING LOCAL conduct an independent audit of the animal ECONOMICDEVELOPMENT attractions we offer and we are working We work extensively with our hotel brands with them and suppliers to solve issues to enable our customers to experience where identified.
local products and services, giving them an We are determined to improve standards authentic taste of the local culture.
for all animals in our supply chain, while Three years ago we launched range of allowing our customers to enjoy and learn excursions to allow customers to immerse about animals in their natural environments.
themselves in the culture of a destination We are currently developing a new animal and create lasting memories.
These Local welfare strategy and will to continue our Label excursions are designed to bring collaboration with Global Spirit, our suppliers, a place, its people and their traditions to and the rest of the tourism industry.
life: celebrating authentic food and drink, We remain committed to working responsibly sharing personal stories with local people, and ethically in all areas of our business, and and contributing to the protection of ancient we expect the same from our suppliers.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 29 CASE STUDY Creating lasting memories: Local Labels An enriching holiday experience often Our Local Label programme has grown Funds from this excursion contribute to the purchase of food for the villagers and comes not only from seeing new places significantly since then, currently we have but from learning and experiencing the 72 excursions over 40 destinations and we provide access to an organic gardener who teaches them how best to cultivate the local culture, particularly when in the even have awarded our first tour Highlights company of local people.
We believe Nicaragua with a Local Label.
This tour land to make the most from the natural offers the opportunity to learn about produce grown there.
Funds are also being that diverse cultures and authentic experiences create holidays that people Nicaraguan culture and nature by visiting a put towards developing more robust housing local farm and finding out about sustainable capable of withstanding hurricane damage.
will enjoy and will encourage them to return to those places.
Our customers value the new excursions In 2013 we launched an exciting range Another great example of a Local Label with 76 per cent happy to recommend of excursions so that customers could excursion is our 100 per cent Mayan Local Label to friends and family and 78 per immerse themselves in the culture of a excursion in Mexico.
This gives customers cent rate their overall experience as good destination and create lasting memories an opportunity to spend time with a real or excellent.
We call these Local Label Mayan community whose village is situated excursions as they are designed to bring a near the Sian Kaan Biosphere Reserve, a place, its people and their traditions to life protected area rich in biodiversity.
A local by celebrating authentic food and drink, guide brings the stories of the village to life sharing personal stories with local people and customers can experience the natural and contributing to the protection of ancient wonders on a boat trip through the reserve sites or natural habitats.
The Local Label as well as taste the locally grown food.
excursions generate direct benefits for local communities by helping to preserve traditional cultures and positively impacting local economies.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
