THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 23 OUR PEOPLE Achieving our strategy of being a truly EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Nearly 10,000 open comments were received customer-centric organisation is only in this years survey and have been shared The fourth annual Group-wide employee possible with high engagement and with specific feedback for Peter Fankhauser engagement survey Every Voice provides commitment from our people, and their and the leadership team.
our people with the opportunity to provide belief in what we do and how we intend detailed feedback about how they feel We are particularly pleased that the to achieve it.
We are delighted to have across a number of areas such as clarity on questions which saw the biggest increases delivered significant improvement in the Companys direction: their views on our this year relate to pride in the organisation, theseareas across the Thomas Cook strategy: their confidence in their manager recommendation as a great place to Groupin our annual employee engagement and the leadership: our culture: and how they work, and strong belief in the direction survey, Every Voice this year.
feel about working for Thomas Cook.
and strategy relating to our customers and products.
Each year, we have seen an increase inour CULTURE AND WAYS results, and this year has been no exception.
Results from the survey are shared with OFWORKING Our Core Index, the formula for high each team, so they can build detailed We have embedded the new matrix performing organisations, achieved a 74 per action plans, culminating in one overall plan operational structure across the Group cent favourable rating overall, compared for the Group.
Action plans are reviewed over the past year, introducing new ways with 72 per cent last year.
Most importantly, closely three times each year by the Group of working as horizontal functions such we saw a significant increase in employee Management Committee GMC to check as IT, Finance and Digital and Marketing engagement, achieving 76 per cent against a progress and maintain momentum.
interact with the source markets, building score last year of 72 per cent and in employee on the success of this work in our Group commitment to the organisation, which STRENGTHENING TALENT Airlines and Scandinavian businesses.
increased from 64 per cent to 70 per cent.
In implementing this change, we recruited We reviewed our key talent and We saw further growth in participation more than 80 per cent of new and vacant successionplans for all members of the roles from existing talent pools within rates to 78 per cent.
We attribute this high GMCand the Thomas Cook Leadership level of response to the tangible actions the business.
Council TCLC to strengthen our we take each year in response to the organisational health and sustainability.
feedback, actions that we communicate and by linkingto the feedback we receive.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 24 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED We welcomed eight new members to the impacting managers and senior leaders We also work to ensure our colleagues GMC, five of which were promoted internally, across the Group.
Building this into our can succeed in our business, regardless and three from external organisations, bonus plan not only acts as a further of their gender, marital status, race, age, further strengthening specific areas of driver of customer-centric behaviour, but sexual preference and orientation, ethnic expertise and improving our ability to deliver also allows us to benchmark performance origin, religion or belief, disability, including our strategy for profitable growth.
Additionally, we colleagues who become disabled during introduced a new Leadership objective for service or trade union affiliation.
Our Navigator programme, a Group-wide all people managers.
This brings focus to emerging talent programme, successfully We have seen improvement in the gender the importance of developing our people, concluded in February 2016, with 18 leaders diversity of our PLC Board, moving from 38 conducting regular performance reviews presenting their ideas for business growth to 44 per cent female this year.
In our GMC, and career conversations, and providing a to our GMC.
Two further Navigator talent we have moved from eight per cent female platform for meaningful two-way feedback.
programmes have commenced in 2016, one to29per cent.
This resulted in an achievement of 96 per dedicated for our Group Airlines businesses, cent completion of mid-year performance We have started a programme to promote and one across the Group, with rigorous reviews across all markets using our online opportunity for career development to selection criteria applied to ensure we focus performance and development system, create a gender balanced leadership on those with highest potential.
MyPAD, My Performance, Aspirations, team.
This will include initiatives such We created and implemented two graduate Development.
as promoting development opportunities programmes in 2016, one in our Group internally, a review of flexible working to In its third year of operation, MyPAD Airlines businesses, for four graduates increase appeal of leadership roles to female continues to act as an enabler for a high and a programme for six graduates in our candidates, and ensuring gender balanced performance culture throughout all source UK business, targeted at Commercial and shortlists for leadership roles, both internally markets within the Group, providing Marketing areas.
Attracting some of the and externally.
visibility of personal development plans, highest calibre graduates, both programmes career aspirations and performance and are designed to deliver future leaders, giving COMMUNICATING WITH potential ratings.
them unique insight into our business, so OURPEOPLE they are well placed to lead functions within We believe our improved employee DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION three to five years.
engagement and employee commitment Achieving our vision to become the worlds results this year are testimony to the best loved travel company will only happen REWARDING PERFORMANCE investment we have made in strengthening by ensuring we have a truly engaged and Adopting a set of strategic objectives to communication with our people across the diverse workforce, who care about our align operational activity to the delivery Group.
We have invested in our internal customers and who are led by an inspiring, of our business strategy has driven an communications team and are taking a energetic and diverse leadership team.
increased commonality of purpose across fresh approach in our tone and content our Leadership team this year.
Pay for We take great care to make sure our when engaging our colleagues.
We have performance remains a pillar of our reward recruitment and selection process, introduceda number of new channels, strategy: this year saw the introduction of learningand development activities including Thomas Cook TV, a regular our core customer measure, net promoter andcareer progression opportunities Group-wide round-up to bring a global score added to our Group-wide bonus plan, do not allow discrimination to occur.
viewofthe organisation to our people.
GENDER DIVERSITY Plc Board Group Management Thomas Cook Thomas Cook Committee Leadership Council Group % % % % 56 71 72 31 Male Male Male Male % % % % 44 29 28 69 Female Female Female Female THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 25 CASE STUDY Customer Heroes 2016 DANIELA SCHRODER SABINE NEUJAHR PART OF THE IN-DESTINATION PART OF THE GROUND OPERATIONS TEAMBASED IN MAJORCA TEAM FOR GROUP AIRLINES In support of our Customer at our Helping and supporting our customers Working in the Caribbean, Sabine is Heart focus this year, the Thomas Cook whilst they are on holiday has been responsible for all ground arrangements Leadership Council TCLC came together Danielas role since she started relating to our flight programme in the in June to dedicate time to our customer working at Thomas Cook 23 years ago.
Earlier this year, due to previous agenda, and to celebrate our Customer Passionate about her customers and her flights being diverted, a flight returning our Heroes from across the Group.
work, Daniela dedicates herself to the customers from Mexico to the UK was unable wellbeing of her customers, often helping to take off.
Faced with the reality that we We asked for nominations from each them in times of need, going above and needed to find a way to bring our customers source market and business area, with an beyond her role to help, often being the home quickly and safely, Sabine had to find impressive response.
Eight winners were contact point for family and friends of a solution.
Her quick thinking and expert invited to present their story to the TCLC.
customers, often supporting up to 70 knowledge of the flight operation resulted in Inspiring and humbling were some of the customers each month.
Working in one of her finding a creative solution.
She realised words used to describe our Customer Heroes our busiest holiday destinations, Danielas we had another flight returningcustomers to as they told their often moving stories, of role can never be a 9-5 job, she always Germany and working acrossseveral teams, how they truly demonstrate Customer at makes herself available, regardless of she quickly arranged for it toland en route our Heart.
All of our Customer Heroes were the time, role modelling for all of us what in the UK, before continuing to Germany, recognised for their efforts andawarded it means to be truly customer-centric, safely returning all of our customers with with a Thomas Cook holiday.
and inspiring colleagues and customers only a short delay.
Great useof initiative, around her.
We are proud to recognise great teamwork, and atotal focus on our Here are two examples of their stories: Daniela as one of our special customer customers makes Sabine a real customer heroes this year.
hero, and another great example to colleagues across the Thomas Cook Group.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
