Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report KEEPING PEOPLE SAFE Our approach Progress against these objectives will form part of the Remuneration Committees overall assessment of executive Keeping people safe is a cornerstone of the business.
The Groups performance in 2017. underlying philosophy that all those affected by its business should return home safe and well at the end of every day In addition to the Groups internal governance process an remainsunchanged.
independent external audit of safety strategy, planning and internal assurance processes was commissioned towards the end Travis Perkins recognises that good safety and good business of 2016.
Inaddition, a review of the effectiveness of the Stay Safe leadership behaviours are indistinguishable from each other and Committee was undertaken as part of the wider review of the through its now well established Stay Safe brand the Group Boards effectiveness.
continues to challenge its thinking and approach to continually improve its safety performance.
Fatal accident of Mark Pointer Stay Safe governance Following the tragic death of a customer at the Groups TravisPerkins, Milton Keynes North branch in November 2012, Throughout 2016 Stay Safe performance was reviewed at board the Company pleaded guilty to breaches of health and safety meetings, by the Executive Committee and also as part ofthe legislation and therefore causing the death of Mr Mark Pointer, Groups regular divisional leadership meetings.
being sentenced by Aylesbury Crown Court sitting at Amersham The Board Stay Safe Committee continued to monitor Law Courts in April 2016.
In judgement, the court recognised performance, through review of the risk profile of the business, that appropriate training systems and procedures were in place monitoring progress against 2016 objectives and establishing and that the failure was implementation at a local level.
Similarly a number of leading Stay Safe objectives for 2017 relating to: it was accepted that substantial change had been made at the branch since the incident.
In sentencing the Company was fined Continued implementation of divisional Stay Safe strategies, 2million and ordered to pay costs of 115,000. aligned to the Group Stay Safe Vision The sentencing provided a poignant opportunity for the Groups Further fide-risking of the Groups operations ExecutiveCommittee and senior leaders to reflect on the Workplace transport and driver behaviour consequences when safety processes are not effective, the progress made over the 4 years since the accident and Safety training delivery and effectiveness measures for: wherethe organisation is today on its safety journey.
All colleagues Whilst the Group cannot change the tragic events of November Occupational drivers 2012 it can commit to learn from them and in addition to its own activities the Group has undertaken to openly share its Front line management experience within its own and other industries facing similar risks.
Senior leaders With the permission of Mrs Pointer the Group shared her Court impact statement with the Groups business leaders to create a deeper emotional connection to the importance of its Stay Safe programme and their role as leaders in influencing safe working practices for colleagues and customers in all of the Groups branches and stores.
50 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Stay Safe performance For those businesses in the earlier stages of improvement 2016 saw an increase in reported lost time incidents to 469 a focus on the development of a Just Culture continues to compared to 457 in 2015, which is an overall increase in the drive improved reporting.
This results in an initial increase and Group long term injury frequency rate LTIFR from 8.53 in characteristic spike in incidents before then seeing a genuine 2015 to 9.42 in the last 12 months.
The Groups Severity Rate and sustainablereduction.
The Groups The most significant challenge across the Group remains near misses reporting continues to go from strength to strength, its ability to engage colleagues.
Consensus from Divisions, increasing by 60% on 2015.
Executive and Board is that the StaySafe strategy and plan The increase in injury numbers and associated frequency remains sound, it targets the principal causes of accidents, rates is disappointing, but not completely unexpected.
a revised Risk Assessment process, learning from accidents The Group has continued to test and challenge throughout through application of the Just Culture model as well as the year as to whether there is an underlying reason for this continuing to tackle the low frequency, highimpact events small increase.
However the Group believes that its culture, related to traffic management.
Culture change takes time processes and consistency have continued to improve, and expectations have always been it would take a minimum and that it must maintain its focus on these same areas.
of two years to make a material difference to performance.
The Groups headline figures mask the different performance Thechallenge is to stay on course and not be tempted to of its operational Divisions and businesses, all of which are try a new approach as the Stay Safe teams are starting at different points in their improvement journey.
General to be effective and leading indicators are turning positive.
Merchanting, Plumbing & Heating and Tile Giant all saw The Group continues to lead in the transport arena, significant reductions in lost time injuries, with associated maintaining gold accreditation as part of the Fleet Operators frequency rates lower by 14%, 34% and 24% respectively.
Recognition Scheme FoRS for the sixth consecutive year.
In contrast Contracts, Wickes and Supply Chain have all seen It also continues to champion the Construction Logistics an increase in lost time frequency rates of 27%, 35% and and Cycle Safety CLOCS programme which brings together 92%respectively.
developers, construction companies, operators, vehicle manufacturers and regulatory bodies to ensure a road safety culture is embedded across the construction industry.
Group Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2016 Month LTIFR 2015 Month LTIFR 2016 Current YTD LTIFR 2015 YTD LTIFR 51 LTIFR Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report Innovation & collaboration Over 600 commercial delivery drivers competed for Driverof the Year, based on their safe driving standards The Groups businesses continue to take the Stay Safe and levels of customer satisfaction.
Ashley Tomlinson from philosophy and translate this into specific actions that are tailored PTSPreston was presented with the award at the Groups to their operations and the safety issues that they face.
the activity completed in 2016 and planned for 2017 includes: Two mechanical handling equipment operators from the Case studies from 2016 Groups Omega distribution centre in Warrington participated in the RTITB International Operator of the Year competition Primary authority in September.
One finished second in the heats, securing his In August the Group signed a Primary Authority Partnership place in the international grand final to be held in 2017. for Health & Safety with Northampton Borough Council and in September a Primary Authority Partnership for Fire Safety with Travis Perkins Pimlico was the first of the Groups London London Fire Brigade.
Both of these partnerships will allow for branches to receive the London Healthy Workplace closer working with enforcement authorities, the provision of Charter award at commitment level.
The award recognises assured advice concerning the Groups approach and to agree the involvement of colleagues in developing the health national standards for implementation.
and wellbeing programme, senior management support, wellbeing champions, a focus on a fun approach to activities Transport safety and providing an exercise area.
In 2015 Travis Perkins joined forces with 3D Driving Awareness to support safety in the local community through the Wheels Planned activity for 2017 & Skills programme, including the sponsorship of a safety fide-risking the Groups operations truck.
Over the past 12 months Group colleagues have Work will continue to embed the Groups new risk assessment attended 53 schools colleges engaging with 15,000 students, process, encouraging greater colleague engagement in local educating them on the safety issues and giving them first improvement activity.
During 2017 risk assessment data will hand experience sitting in the cab of an HGV to understanding be analysed to better risk profile the Groups operations and the challenges to drivers of blind spots and associated risks better target intervention activity focusing on high and medium to cyclists and pedestrians.
For 2017, the Safety Truck will be risklocations.
based at the British Motor Museum allowing even greater engagement with visiting schools and the general public.
Continuing the focus on workplace transport, drivers and driving behaviour, an improved transport key performance Health & wellbeing indicators dashboard will be implemented, delivering In March Travis Perkins signed up as a partner for NHSEnglands internal JAUPT accredited Driver CPC training targeting safe One You programme, promoting their on-line How AreYou?
loading and delivery as well as dynamic risk assessment.
health assessment and supporting resources for use by A comprehensive driver profiling and risk management tool allcolleagues.
Pilot activity with Northamptonshire County Council saw the Work will also continue to review the Groups wider safety Group providing free medical checks for colleagues over 40 at training programme and how the effectiveness of training its Head Office and Northamptonshire distribution centres.
for all colleagues, occupational drivers, front line management and senior leaders will be measured.
Operational divisions This year all divisions have focused on further fide-risking the Health & wellbeing business with a focus on workplace transport, manual handling The Group will continue to develop its broader health and and more broadly on revitalising its Risk Assessment process wellbeing programme further enhancing colleague benefits to encourage colleague engagement and generation of available via My Perks including a financial wellbeing offering improvement actions.
In addition the following local successes and online GP service.
were recognised: Supply Chain have agreed to work with Lets Get Healthy in Contracts saw all three businesses recognised through Royal 2017 to provide a comprehensive wellbeing programme for Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA, Keyline and 5,000 colleague across Supply Chain.
CCF both receiving gold awards and BSS Industrial a silver award.
BSS Industrial also won Safety Initiative of the Year in the H&V News Awards for their LiFT manual handling training programme.
