STRATEGIC REPORT RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS SUSTAINING PERFORMANCE INNEW OPERATIONS As a responsible operator, Tullow manages non-technical, or above ground, risks with thesamerigour and focus with which it manages the below-ground technical challenges of exploringfor and producing oil and gas.
Our commitment to safety and and commissioning phases.
The sustainability has not been deterred in Company also made progress against We are very proud of our 2016 by the downward market pressures anAsset Integrity Improvement Plan achievement of moving to onJubilee, an FPSO which achieved five driven by the fall in oil prices and the top quartile industry years of production in 2016.
A key element impact that this has had on budgets.
This of the plan was to clarify and simplify is most evident in our Lost Time Injury performance on health thedocumented management system Frequency rates moving to industry top and safety management.
and provide easy access to controlled quartile performance.
Additionally, our Aidan Heavey documents.
This progressed and was performance and commitment to health, Chief Executive Officer verified as part of the 2016 PSM audit.
safety and environmental performance was the highest performing category in our The Kenya Early Oil Pilot Scheme EOPS employee feedback survey.
We manage has taken PSM into account during the our operations responsibly through concept select phase.
The likelihood of mandatory policies and standards to which major accident events is low because 4.1 % we hold all employees and contractors ofthe simple nature of the facilities.
score achieved out of a 5% allocation accountable.
Our organisational However, PSM continues to be considered for safe and sustainable operations structure makes clear the accountabilities as part of the design and operational in the Group scorecard within the business and the corporate phases of both the EOPS and Full Field centre for delivery and structured and Development FFD.
Transport safety for independent assurance, respectively.
EOPS will be a priority in 2017.
ZERO Our safety and sustainability Challenges that emerged in 2016 included performance is incentivised through LTIs in the last 12 months: top clarifying, simplifying and better defining Tullows Group scorecard.
See pages quartile LTIF performance accountabilities within the Tullow Ghana 16to 21 for more information.
and MODEC personnel and management systems.
Targeted improvements are REDUCED Process Safety Management PSM being worked into 2017 planning.
lost man-hours from community PSM involves managing a number of related operations stoppages as technical plant, managerial processes Environment a result of improved stakeholder and human factors people activities Environmental management covers engagement in Kenya which, if not managed effectively, could Environmental and Social Impact lead to a major incident.
PSM is Assessments ESIAs and Management applicable to drilling and production Plans ESMPs, resource use operations within Tullow.
It applies to the minimisation, waste management, concept selection, design, construction protected areas and biodiversity, and commissioning, and operations, GreenHouse Gases GHGs and including modifications.
emissions management, and close-out decommissioning remediation.
2016 saw the addition of a second FPSO in Ghana, installed at the TEN fields.
Tullows Group total scope 1 emissions, PSM was incorporated throughout the which in 2016 included gas and diesel project life cycle.
The safety and from our offices as well as emissions environmentally critical element from our operations, were 754,338 tonnes performance standards were agreed and of CO e 2015: 752,539 tonnes CO e and independently verified at both the design 142 tonnes of CO e per 1,000 tonnes of 38 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1 CONSOLIDATED LOST MANHOURS LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY LTIF RATES 10 1 0.9 8 0.8 0.7 6 0.6 0.5 4 0.4 0.3 2 0.2 0 0.1 0 12 12 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 Tullow LTIF OPG average LTIF hydrocarbon produced 2015: 122.07 tonnes of CO e per 1,000 VPSHR compliance, which will be executed in 2017.
This was tonnes of hydrocarbon produced.
Total scope 2 emissions were an important milestone in continuing to improve performance and align fully to the aspirations of the Voluntary Principles.
4,763 tonnes of CO e 2015: 4,631 tonnes of CO e. Full details of Additionally and based on recommendations from an external our Basis of Reporting can be found online.
review, the Tullow grievance management processes have ESIA commitments are being met within Tullow businesses.
been enhanced to better manage any allegations of human Within the New Ventures team, ESIA close-out reports are rights abuse by public private security forces.
There have documented when operations are completed.
Additionally, been no allegations reported.
theIFC, an equity partner in our Kenya project, has reviewed current operations and planning and found the work to date to Occupational safety and health be compliant with IFC Performance Standards.
Progress has After a challenging health and safety performance in 2014 15, been made in remediating legacy drilling waste in Uganda, the Company has achieved top quartile performance for the andthe work is expected to be complete by the end of the year.
In 2016, Tullow reduced its LTIF from 0.3 to zero Improved performance in our drilling and completions activities Tullow has formally announced its no go commitment for contributed to this outcome.
World Heritage Sites, and this commitment was accepted byUNESCO in 2016.
The associated Protected Area Procedure Given a malaria-related fatality in late 2015, the Group put a has been operationalised in all decision making.
lotof energy into refocusing its prevention-related activities.
Senior leadership was very visible in this effort.
There are challenges that remain.
We need to continue to raise the profile of environmental management in business decision Social performance making.
In an operational environment, we will expand Safety Social performance covers all our interactions with communities, Critical Elements to include Environmentally Critical Elements.
including stakeholder engagement and management, grievance As we develop the Kenya business, we need to factor water management, land access and compensation, impact mitigation useminimisation into development planning and execution.
and community consent and agreements.
Theuseof the Turkwel Dam is our current preferred source foroperational use, and this will require more planning and Performance associated with the management of grievances dialogue with stakeholders in 2017. andwork disruptions saw improvement in 2016.
The Company developed a Master Plan for Kenya that considers the holistic Security, crisis management and the Voluntary Principles management of non-technical risks from a landscape The Group Emergency Preparedness Standard has been perspective.
The Company developed a growing understanding updated to better describe the minimum training requirements oftraditional Turkana this year and will use this to embark on for the three tiers Field, Incident and Crisis Management aprocess to reach agreement with all stakeholders for FFD.
Teams as well as to provide clear definitions on the different TheCompanys Human Rights Policy articulates our aim to types of exercises to be conducted annually.
TEN has been obtain agreement of project-affected communities where we covered in the Tullow Ghana Offshore Security Plan at an early operate, and guides us toward Free Prior Informed Consent stage, and security lessons learnt from Jubilee, particularly FPIC where land and livelihoods are affected by our operations.
those pertaining to the no-go zone around the FPSO, have Challenges remain in fully operationalising the Human Rights Policy, including how we assess compliance in our supply chain.
beenincorporated into the TEN Project.
There has been significant progress in the delivery of training on Human Rights and Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights VPSHRs to private and public security supporting our operations in Kenya and Ghana.
In late 2016, the Government of Kenya and Tullow agreed a structure for animportant Memorandum of Understanding MOU to cover www.
