CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ETHICS & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT Committees role DEAR SHAREHOLDER The highest standards of ethics and Tullow has built a very strong reputation compliance play a critical role in the for business integrity and we work hard continued success and integrity of to maintain this, knowing that it is one of Tullows business and are an essential our most valuable assets.
Any behaviour part of our risk management processes.
which has a negative impact on this The Committee supports the Board in reputation could significantly affect promoting ethics and compliance both in ourability to operate and we recognise Tullow and with those who work with us, that this is one of the key risks we and assures our stakeholders that our mustmanage.
policies and approach are adequate In 2016, work on Ethics & Compliance andeffective.
continued to have a high profile across We remain fully focused The term ethics means the Tullow Tullow.
The Ethics & Compliance Values and culture, which require us to oncontinuing to promote Committee met regularly and provided operate in a way that meets clear ethical support to the business by encouraging Ethics & Compliance across standards.
Compliance means ensuring strong ethical behaviour and ensuring everything we do and look that we meet all the requirements of full compliance with all relevant forward to making further legislation applying to the business and legislation.
We were encouraged by specifically the UK Bribery Act.
thestrong leadership shown by our progress in 2017. senior executives in these areas which Ann Grant Committees main responsibilities has raised awareness across the Chair of the Ethics & The Committees responsibilities are set organisation and provided a very clear ComplianceCommittee out in its terms of reference and are to: message about their importance.
advise the Board on the development The Committee also undertook a Meetings of strategy and policies relating number of specific actions including Committee members attended toethics and compliance: agreeing a new E-Learning module, Ann Grant 4 4 approving a full revision to our review key ethical and compliance Steve Lucas 4 4 expenditure related to a public official risks and monitor the effectiveness standard, and supporting increased Ian Springett 4 4 ofrespective mitigation activities engagement with the Tullow business.
andcontrols: We remain fully focused on continuing evaluate the ethical and compliance topromote Ethics & Compliance across 2016 highlights aspects of Tullows culture and make everything we do and look forward Strong leadership from recommendations to rectify any tomaking further progress in 2017. senior executives on Ethics & deficiencies identified, with an Compliance emphasis on the example set by Ann Grant management and the senior Chair of the Ethics & Agreeing Ethics & Compliance leadership team: ComplianceCommittee training across the entire organisation through an oversee development and monitor 7 February 2017 effective E-learning module implementation and effectiveness of the Code of Ethical Conduct and other Increased oversight on key policies and standards in relation Ethics & Compliance risks toethics and compliance: Approval of revision to the make recommendations to the Board Expenditure Related to a Public about amendments to the Code Of Official Standard Ethical Conduct and other policies Direct engagement with and and standards: support to Ethics & Compliance receive reports and review the resources in country findings of significant internal and Oversight of key investigations, external investigations, audits and ensuring appropriate outcomes reviews relating to ethics and compliance policies and procedures: liaise with and report to the Audit Committee about relevant standards and procedures, the adequacy of systems for raising concerns and anysignificant fraud or error that has been reported to the Committee: and 78 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 review compliance performance across the Group using data from monitoring, auditing and investigations.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Tullowwebsite and are reviewed annually.
The Committee currently comprises two non-executive Directors, Ann Grant, who chairs the Committee, and Steve Lucas, and one Executive Director, Ian Springett, who has executive responsibility for Ethics & Compliance across the Group.
Ann Grant chaired all meetings in 2016.
The Chairman of the Board also regularly attended the Committees meetings.
The heads of key functions in the Group provided specific support for particular agenda items and discussions.
Inaddition, during 2016, the Committee was supported by management team members from Ethics & Compliance, Legal, Organisation Strategy & Effectiveness, and Internal Audit.
Committee activities during 2016 The Committee was briefed on, and oversaw, a number of Ethics & Compliance initiatives across the Group.
These included: continued improvements in the level of engagement of the Ethics & Compliance function with the organisation, including the Board and Executive: the development and execution of a new E-learning training module across the organisation: monitoring of the implementation of the revised standard for expenditure related to public officials: improvements in the governance and management of investigations carried out by the Business Integrity team and in ensuring the country involved takes ownership ofthatwork: ensuring greater oversight and scrutiny of consultants whoare Politically Exposed Persons PEPs or considered high-risk by virtue of their interaction with public officials: continually reviewing the effectiveness of the tone used by senior leaders in relation to ethics and compliance by monitoring our assurance processes and reviewing the whistle-blowing statistics and the outcomes of related investigations: and monitoring the response to internal investigations, looking for trends in the findings, identifying any systemic issues and highlighting lessons learned.
Looking forward to 2017 The Committees work in 2017 will focus on: consolidating the improved ethics and compliance cultureacross the organisation: ensuring implementation of the Ethics & Compliance strategy: improving the capability and effectiveness of the Ethics&Compliance team: and delivering an ethics and compliance risk managementprogramme.
