UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Sustainability Report Sustainability agenda In keeping with our culture and Our sustainability agenda includes the key elements of the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals SDGs.
a desire to behave ethically and The goals aim to end extreme poverty, inequality and responsibly, our sustainability climate change by 2030 on a global scale.
agenda covers everything we do: During 2016 UBM was listed in the FTSE4Good Index for the second year running.
This year UBM also won two our people, customers, governance, CDP awards: the environment and our relationship Biggest Emissions Reduction relative : and with social communities.
These awards recognise UBMs high quality carbon management programme and commitment to reduce global warming.
Sustainability Leadership Group People Throughout the year, the UBM Sustainability Leadership to engage, motivate and support our Group continued to move us towards UBMs long-term people.
The goals were set based on UBMs to run our business responsibly and ethically.
materiality assessment which involved over 6,000 correspondents and determined those aspects of sustainability that are most important to our internal and external stakeholders, including our employees, the communities in which we operate, and our investors, supporting suppliers and customers.
The pathway towards these Customers sustainability Communities to serve our customers and to support the social goals is aligned with our Events First strategy.
Environment to manage our environmental impact.
Sustainability focus area and summary Our priorities Our measures KPIs People Training and education Training spend We recognise the importance of engaging, motivating, Diversity and equal opportunity % of women in management training and supporting our people.
How we develop UBMs High Performance Culture and strengthen UBMs status as an employer of choice is an essential part of our For more information about sustainability agenda our People, see page 20-23 Customers Customer experience and satisfaction NPS As well as being a strategic priority and one of the UBM UBMs financial performance Profitability Commitments, we also seek to improve our relationships with our customers through close collaboration and engagement on sustainability initiatives Governance Health & safety Health & safety plan roll-out We have robust structures in place which ensure that we run Doing business at UBM Code of Business Conduct: percentage our business responsibly and ethically and manage risk of whistleblowing calls investigated appropriately and resolved Environment Usage of materials for UBM events Waste tonnage from UBM events We strive to run UBMs business in an environmentally UBMs energy usage Energy usage at offices and events responsible way, reducing our environmental impact wherever possible Communities Ability for UBM staff to volunteer % of employees volunteering We support the social communities in which we work those local to our offices as well as those local to our events 36 S St tr ra ate teg gi ic R c Re ep po or rt t G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e R Re epor port t F Fi in nanc anci ia all S St tat ate em me en nt ts s The UBM Commitments People We put customers at the heart of what we do We recognise the importance of engaging, We listen carefully to our customers to develop a deep understanding of their needs.
We respond to our customers in a dynamic way and motivating, training and supporting focus on delivering outstanding experiences our people.
We bring passion and expertise The passion of our people creates an inspiring place to work.
We The UBM Commitments are an articulation of our culture of bring deep expertise and unfaltering dedication to achieve great who we are, what we stand for and what it means to be part results.
We enable individuals and teams to contribute, to have fun of UBM.
and to grow At the heart of our Commitments is serving our communities.
We work collaboratively Employees are encouraged, through funded support, to enrich We connect and work collaboratively to deliver exceptional results the lives of the communities we serve.
Whether this is through for our customers.
Our teams and partnerships, locally and globally, volunteering days or financial support, employees actively allow us to explore different perspectives, to learn from each other engage in grass roots initiatives that support our and achieve great things together Sustainability efforts.
We serve our communities This is complemented by UBMs group-wide priorities on Gender We champion specialist professional communities.
Our rich Diversity for more detail go to page 22, and the active understanding of these communities, coupled with our global scale promotion of Sustainability and Diversity themes at our Events.
and local presence, enables us to host and enrich the life of each local UBM continued its investment in future leaders through the community we serve One Young World programme.
Our 2016 cohort are now We are bold engaged in driving their personal Sustainability projects We innovate and encourage entrepreneurship in order to serve our across UBM.
We harness the creative and competitive energies that we generate from our diversity We do the right thing Being an ethical, sustainable business is central to how we behave, how we make decisions and how we do business every day.
We are proud of the positive impact we have on each other, our communities and on wider society For more information about our People, see page 20-23 Communities Customers In July 2016 we launched a new Community Customer focus is one of the UBM Engagement Programme after a year of Commitments, and the sustainability extensive research and development.
agenda helps us to help our customers.
Community Engagement unifies and strengthens a long history Event charity partnerships of local volunteer and contribution initiatives into a globallyWe help our customers to achieve their sustainability aims.
accessible suite of services, to help our employees and UBM has developed a number of event specific charity customers support their charities.
partnerships, which enable our customers to be part of a charitable or community activity relevant to their industry.
Each year every UBM employee can devote up to 32 hours of Charity partnerships have now been formed at 43 of our volunteer time and claim 750 in volunteer grants, 500 in 1:1 events including: Matched Funding and limitless in-kind donations.
Additionally, Community Engagement encourages and helps implement Food Ingredients and The Hunger Project: charity partnerships in UBM offices, business units and at Protection and Management Series and Step Forward: events.
Enhanced promotion of the Community Engagement Decorex and Fine Cell Work: and programme worldwide has resulted in a significant increase in Cosmoprof Asia and the Hong Kong Breast Cancer Foundation.
both cash and in-kind donations to charity, evidenced by the figures set out below.
2015 2016 Total cash donations to charity including matched funding 249,912 432,108 P lease visit the Sustainability section of our website at Total donations in kind to charity 579,021 1,620,253 www.
com about-ubm sustainability to learn more about % of staff volunteering 8% 14% our activity in this area including details of our Event Charity Partnerships and download our Global Sustainability Newsletters.
37 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued We support the principles of the United Nations Universal Governance Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
Doing Business at UBM, our Code of We support the implementation of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 Business Conduct, was adopted in 2014 which aims to crack down on slavery, forced labour and human as a core tenet of what we stand for as an trafficking, and have published our Modern Slavery Act statement, on our website.
It is embedded throughout the Information security organisation.
During 2016 we continued with our commitment to address the cyber risks facing UBM.
We have created an information security During 2016 we kept up this momentum by ensuring that the Code strategy to address the key risks which UBM faces: this strategy of Business Conduct is integrated into the way that people work on will be implemented during 2017.
We continued to educate our a daily basis.
It forms part of a new employees induction process employees on the threat of phishing through an awareness and comprises policies which are regularly reviewed and are campaign, and provided further information and education as accessible through the Hub UBMs intranet.
Human rights and labour standards: Anti-bribery and corruption Information security and use of social media: and During 2015 UBM launched Safecall, an independent confidential Anti-bribery and corruption.
reporting line, for employees to report, anonymously, any breaches of the Code of Business Conduct.
In order to maintain Human rights visibility and ensure that all employees are aware of the service, Given the nature of our business and our global reach, we believe a communications refresh was completed during 2016. that the principal human rights issues affecting our business relate to non-discrimination and fair employment practices.
Making our offices and events sustainable The Sustainable 10 is a simple ten point plan which aligns our In 2016 we launched Sustainable 10: a ten sustainability objectives with our Events First strategy.
The plan point plan to help us maintain our offices and comprises those priority areas identified by our stakeholders as having the potential to contribute most significantly to these create events that benefit our customers, objectives.
The 10 apply primarily to our events, but to our employees, communities and the environment.
offices where relevant, and are set out in more detail below.
1 Safe Track 2 Save the Carpets 3 Recycled Paper 4 Reduce Print 5 Lower Booths We systematically audit At events we leave some We are working to ensure Our office IT systems Exhibitors at Cosmoprof for health and safety aisles uncarpeted.
APLF, a that recycled paper is used support mobile working, Asia reduced stand height standards at our events UBM event in Hong Kong, across all of our offices reducing the need to print.
by a metre and saved and in our offices saved 35 soccer fields and events to reduce the During 2016, Hong Kong 1,720m3 of stand material worldwide.
All employees worth of carpeting that carbon impact of our based events alone reduced and 86 truck journeys have health and safety would have gone to landfill paper use by 27%.
print quantities by 23% training on joining UBM and saved over $80,000 from this change 6 Look at Waste 7 Think Energy 8 Staff Communication 9 Customer 10 Partner Locally UBM events generated One event can consume Our employees feel We look to develop charity Communication around 4,600 tonnes of as much energy as an good about working for partners linked to our We tell our clients when we landfill waste in 2015. office uses in a year.
We a company that cares, events.
For example, Food save them money and help By reviewing our waste encourage event planners and will last.
We share our Ingredients has partnered to protect the environment.
and recycling, we have and venues to switch to LED achievements in person, with The Hunger Project This encourages prevented more then lights to save electricity through the sustainability for three years running collaboration and a 2,000 tonnes of waste newsletter, and on the Hub successful partnership going to landfill in 2016 38 S St tr ra ate teg gi ic R c Re ep po or rt t G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e R Re epor port t F Fi in nanc anci ia all S St tat ate em me en nt ts s Environment 1 Restated UBM are one of the first four 1 Mandatory carbon emissions reporting : 2014 tCO e 2015 tCO e 2016 tCO e 2 2 2 FTSE 350 companies to set Scope 1 Direct emissions approved Science-Based Natural gas emissions from offices 122 144 84 Fugitive emissions from offices 22 43 Targets.
Emissions from Company-owned After exceeding its previous emissions vehicles 115 110 110 reduction target in 2015, UBM set a new Scope 2 Indirect emissions science-based target which now includes Electricity from offices 5,235 2,761 2,949 emissions from global events.
Further details Scope 3 Other indirect emissions of our science-based targets are available at Water use emissions from offices 5 2 9 www.
com about-ubm sustainability Waste disposal to landfill from offices 5 7 6 Waste energy recovery from offices In order to reduce our environmental impact and inc, anaerobic 1 0.3 0.2 align our actions with the Paris Agreement of Commuter travel emissions 3,246 2,929 2,456 the United Nations Framework Convention on Business travel flights 3,191 1,923 1,904 Climate Change, which requires global warming Business travel train 83 88 to be kept below 2C, our science-based target Business travel taxi 83 91 aims to achieve a reduction in carbon emissions Business travel car hire 35 52 of 11.4% per square metre of office and event Offsite datacentre electricity 544 325 385 space by 2020 against a baseline set in 2015.
2 Events exhibitions globally 13,130 14,074 18,146 Other environmental achievements during 2016 include: Total gross emissions 25,617 22,476 26,323 UBM won two CDP awards in 2016.
The Net emissions awards, for Biggest Emissions Reduction minus electricity from renewable sources 25,721 relative and for Science Based Targets SBT, recognise UBMs high quality carbon 1 Please refer to page 99 in the Directors Report for calculation methodology management programme and its commitment 2 Emissions from recorded electricity, gas, waste, paper and carpet usage, freight transport excluding delegate travel emissions to reduce global warming.
Global event emissions calculations were carried out for the third year.
UBM continues Scope 1&2 Recorded Emissions for o ces CO e per sqf 2 to be the only global events organiser to monitor the carbon footprint of its events: 10 In 2016, 12 of our events retained the 9 certification of ISO 20121 sustainable 8 events management system.
7 6 Over the past six years, UBM offices globally 5 have achieved consistent energy reductions 4 through efficient energy monitoring and 3 management as well as regular communication.
2 In each new UBM office, energy smart meters 1 are installed wherever possible to measure 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 UBMs energy usage on a real-time basis, enabling accurate monitoring and therefore management of usage.
Monthly energy Average Restated reduction league tables keep facilities and coverage 2014 2015 2016 sustainability teams aware of their offices Energy usage 97% of offices 11,935 MWh 6,392 MWh 6,357 MWh position in the league and the associated cost 93% of events 18,366 MWh 28,976 MWh savings and drives a friendly competitive spirit across the offices.
Waste to landfill 40% of offices 15.7 tonnes 16.3 tonnes 12.2 tonnes In line with our new sustainability priorities and 90% of events 4,631 tonnes 2,395 tonnes our Events First strategy, we report on energy usage and waste from our events see the table Please refer to page 99 for calculation methodology opposite.
Our event energy usage has increased in 2016 due to the expansion of our We are aware of the Water Stress Countries defined by the World Resources event data collection and the inclusion of new Institute.
We have collected water data from a number of our offices in the events from acquisitions.
UK, USA, Netherlands, China, Malaysia, Turkey, Thailand and Brazil.
Total recorded water consumption in 2016 was 25,022m3.
Due to the nature of our business, our events and offices do not involve significant water consumption and our impact on water stress countries is therefore small.
