Corporate and social responsibility 51 Sustainability, people and culture Corporate and social responsibility Ultra believes that a successful and sustainable business is built on more than just financial results.
Ultra has built a reputation for meeting its commitments.
Ultra believes that a successful and sustainable Ultra has a corporate ethics code, which To maintain the highest degree of impartiality, business is built on more than just financial encompasses a gifts and hospitality policy.
the independent members of the Committee results.
Ultra has built a reputation for meeting All Ultra businesses are required to report on are self-electing with the appointment of its commitments to all its stakeholders.
compliance with the corporate ethics code the Chairman exclusively within the remit of monthly and the Board reviews compliance the independent members.
The Committee Ultra is committed to maintaining high with the code twice a year.
meets quarterly and provides assurance that standards of business ethics as part of being a Ultras business is being conducted in line responsible business.
The Group endeavours Ultras ethics code can be found within with the Groups policies, processes and any to uphold the rights of its employees as well Ultras Policy Statement on Ethics and relevant legislation.
This is ascertained as creating an honest and transparent Business Conduct along with its policies on through discussions with senior managers, business both internally and externally.
The anti-corruption and anti-bribery, competition receiving reports and visiting Ultras Groups corporate responsibility initiatives are compliance and gifts and corporate businesses.
During these reviews, the focused in the following key areas: hospitality.
All of these policies can be found Committee undertakes a formal review of on the Group website: Human rights business activities and the independent http: www.
com aboutUltras Board requires that the Group should, members provide advice and guidance on the us .
aspx at all times, be a responsible corporate citizen appropriateness of target markets and and, as such, the Group complies with all PROVIDING GUIDANCE AND TRAINING customers and on potential teaming partners.
applicable legislation in the countries in which TO EMPLOYEES The Committee also considers the reports that it operates.
Ultra recognises and respects the The Group continues to promote and come through EthicsPoint.
rights of its employees, stakeholders and the strengthen its policies, processes and training communities in which it operates.
As such, to ensure employees have the clear guidance Ultra adheres to all relevant government they need in identifying and managing guidelines, designed to ensure that its ethical matters.
products are not incorporated into weapons Ultra uses EthicsPoint in all of its businesses.
or other equipment used for the purposes of EthicsPoint is a Group-wide independent, terrorism, internal repression or the abuse of condential weband telephone-based human rights.
In 2016, the Company hotline, which enables all employees to reviewed its supply chain management report concerns anonymously about possible processes in light of the Modern Slavery Act improprieties and other compliance issues.
2015 and has published a statement on All reports registered through EthicsPoint are Slavery and Human Trafcking which can be reviewed and responded to in a timely and found on the Groups website.
The responsibility for Ethical business conduct handling reports rests with Ultras Senior Ultra is committed to ethical business conduct.
Independent Non-Executive Director with the MEETING LEGAL AND ETHICAL STANDARDS exception of US security-related issues which Ultra requires all employees, businesses and are routed to the Chairman of the Security third parties, who act on Ultras behalf, to Committee of either Ultras Special Security comply with the applicable laws and Agreement company or Ultras Proxy Board regulations of the countries in which it company, as appropriate.
action is taken against employees for making reports in good faith through EthicsPoint.
Any Ultra is committed to operating in employee found to be in breach of the Policy accordance with all legislative requirements, statement on Ethics and Business Conduct is including those pertaining to anti-corruption subject to appropriate disciplinary action.
and bribery practices, competition and antitrust laws and relevant national export INDEPENDENT ETHICS OVERVIEW COMMITTEE control regulations.
The Ethics Overview Committee was formed to provide independent advice and scrutiny of Ultras business activity, giving assurance that the Groups current and planned undertakings are conducted in a manner consistent with the legislative environment and are transparent.
The Committee comprises six permanent members, three of whom, including the Chairman, are independent.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report.
Corporate and social responsibility 52 Corporate and social responsibility continued Diversity and inclusion Ultra uses rigorous recruiting practices to Historically, Ultra has reported lost time These values are embedded into the ensure the best candidate is selected, based accident data per 200,000 hours and organisation to ensure each business is truly on objective requirements and assessments.
reportable recordable accident rate per representative of the environment in which it Ultra monitors gender and age diversity.
To bring Ultras reporting into line operates.
It is essential to the Group that all with its peers and to reect a new, nonDisabled employees employees feel fairly treated and are not financial KPI see page 29, Ultra has elected It is the policy of the Group that the training, discriminated against in any way.
To enable to report lost time accident rate being an career development and promotion of this, Ultra complies with all applicable accident resulting in half a day or more off disabled people should, as far as possible, be employment rights and legislation in the work per 1000 employees, see Figure 1 and identical to that of other employees.
countries in which it operates.
In addition, externally reportable accidents per 100 Applications for employment by disabled the Group is strongly committed to employees, see Figure 2. people are always fully considered, bearing in maintaining a work environment which mind the aptitude of the applicant concerned.
Figure 1 provides equal opportunities for all In the event of a member of staff becoming Lost time accidents per 1000 employees employees, regardless of age, disability, disabled, every effort is made to ensure that gender re-assignment, marriage or civil 2016 3.6 their employment with the Group continues partnership, pregnancy or maternity, race, and that appropriate training is arranged.
2015 3.5 religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation.
Health and safety 2014 2.5 The health and safety and well-being of the Board of Directors 2013 3.7 Groups employees and visitors is of the Female 0% upmost importance to Ultra.
A healthy, 2012 5.1 committed and engaged workforce, working Male 100% in a safe environment, is necessary to achieve Figure 2 superior business results.
The businesses Externally reportable accidents manage a wide range of safety risks, from per 100 employees ofce and manufacturing risks to providing services at customer sites, including military 2016 0.7 Executive team bases and platforms.
The Group is committed Female 12% 2015 0.5 to upholding and improving health and safety Male 88% across the Group and engages in continuous 2014 0.4 safety improvement activities.
2013 0.7 The safety of the products and services provided 2012 0.8 to users and customers is a key priority to Ultra.
Each business ensures the appropriate legal and Senior management ethical levels of safety are met across a products Environment Female 14% life cycle, with particular emphasis on the Ultra is committed to putting effective manufacturing, in-service and disposal phases.
Male 86% measures in place to minimise the environmental impact of its activities.
This is All operating businesses are required to have important both for its employees and the a written health and safety policy, which is to communities in which it operates, as it will help be upheld at all times.
Within each business, to secure the long-term future of the Group.
Managing Directors and Presidents are These measures include the operational responsible for health and safety and for All of Ultra Electronics business environment and the products and providing adequate resources to meet the Female 28% services that the Group provides.
requirements of the health and safety policy.
Male 72% Independent external audits, which take place PRODUCTS biennially, assess compliance.
Overall health Environmental considerations are taken into and safety responsibility at Board level resides account throughout a products life cycle, with the Chief Executive.
from concept through to disposal: each individual business ensures its practices and Each business is required to submit an annual % of gender diversity processes consider this.
Businesses work with report on health and safety performance.
their suppliers to reduce the impact of their The Board receives an annual report which products and to maximise the use of summarises the health and safety performance acceptable components.
Corporate and social responsibility 53 Sustainability, people and culture Total tonnes of CO2 emitted by all Ultra businesses Total tCO2 scope 1 11% Total tCO2 scope 2 89% Ultra ensures the full co-operation of all The Group continues to address energy Ultras Greenhouse gas emissions employees to minimise environmental impact conservation and emissions.
Energy tonnes of CO2 tCO2 and maximise the conservation of materials.
consumption is measured annually and the Total tCO2 emitted by all data compared with previous years.
IMPLEMENTATION Ultra businesses 20,895 The Chief Executive is the main Board As part of the Carbon Reduction Commitment Total tCO2 from Ultras business member with overall environmental CRC programme, Ultra, in the UK, is activities scope 1 2,201 responsibility and the Managing Directors registered with the Environment Agency.
The Total tCO2 purchased and Presidents of the operating businesses Groups compliance emissions reported for by Ultra scope 2 18,694 are responsible for the implementation of the 2015 16 were 7,474t CO2.
performance data is shown in Figure 4.
Ultras annual emissions in relation to Ultras business Ultras formal environmental policy addresses Figure 4 activities shown as tCO2 compliance with environmental legislation, Total tonnes of CO2 emitted t m sales per m of revenue 26.59 conformity with standards for air, waste disposal and noise, the economical use of Total CRC emissions per 1,000 CO2 tonnes Methodology materials and the establishment of 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 In 2016, each UK business reported on the appropriate environmental performance appropriate greenhouse gas metrics.
Progress is monitored through 7,474 Year annual reporting and a biennial external audit metrics were aggregated to produce the 15 16 21.0 gures reported above to which standard process, the last of which took place in 2015.
DEFRA conversion factors were applied.
Where appropriate, individual businesses 8,178 Year have ISO14001 accreditation.
Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme 14 15 21.9 The Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme Each site plans and manages compliance with ESOS is a relatively new piece of legislation environmental requirements and the 8,424 Year introduced by the UK Government that processes for the storage, handling and 13 14 21.9 disposal of hazardous or pollutant materials applies to Ultra.
The scheme is run by an Environment Agency such as CRC and its are reviewed on a continuous basis.
Ultra 8,208 Year focus is to reduce the demand for energy.
caused no contamination of land in 2016, 12 13 23.6 Ultra has successfully demonstrated continuing the excellent track record of the previous five years.
compliance with the requirements using 6,510 Year ESOS-compliant energy audits and notied 11 12 There was one environmental incident 17.2 our compliance to the Environment Agency reported in the year, which has been resolved.
The opportunities for energy 0 5 10 15 20 25 Ultra measures and reports on its packaging savings identied during the ESOS Total CO2 tonnes m sales waste annually and this is shown in Figure 3. assessment will be addressed as part of the In the UK, businesses are encouraged and S3 programme.
incentivised to reduce the net amount of Additional environmental initiatives Greenhouse gas emissions waste they produce.
All businesses are audited biennially.
In the US in Ultra is committed to the systematic reduction 2015, ProLogic, 3 Phoenix, 3eTI, ATS, Flightline of greenhouse gas emissions.
In compliance and NSPI all achieved 100% in the audit.
Figure 3 with the 2013 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Additionally in the UK, CIS, ID, Sonar Systems, Packaging waste t m sales in UK businesses Regulations, Ultra collects and consolidates PMES, PALS and Controls all maintained the information on carbon dioxide CO2 2016 0.097 ISO14001 environmental standard.
emissions from across its portfolio of 19 2015 businesses: 2013 was the first year this was 0.162 undertaken and serves as the baseline year.
2014 0.164 2013 Sharon Harris 0.155 Company Secretary & General Counsel 2012 0.192 Note: 2016 gures show reduction due to in-year disposal of ID Systems To read more about Ultra and the environment, see page 45 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
