Developing Ultras people 46 Developing Ultras people Ultra would not be able to deliver value to customers without the innovative and entrepreneurial spirit of its people.
The right people I have enjoyed Most companies state that their people are the People in action companys most important asset.
Ultra varies working at Ultra Nicholas Roberts above left is a this slightly: the right people are the Groups Graduate Engineer at Precision Control most important asset.
It is generally recognised immensely!
The highly Systems, having joined Ultra through an that Ultra is successful in innovating to meet Arkwright Scholarship.
customers needs due to the broad range of varied work that Ultra Why did you choose Ultra?
skills and capabilities of the Groups I chose to go with Ultra as my full time gives me has provided employees.
Therefore, people and their employer as, over the years, I had gained development are key initiatives for the Group me with a challenging, fantastic working relationships with many as it strives to achieve an efficient organisation of my co-workers.
During my many work with engaged and committed people.
but highly enjoyable, experience placements, I had seen the Domain expertise progression of several projects and was working environment.
Ultra maintains its domain expertise by excited to be involved in them and ensuring that employees maintain continuing everything Ultra does.
Nicholas Roberts Graduate Engineer, professional development and close links with What is your role at Ultra?
Precision Control Systems customers and end-users of Ultras products.
I currently work within the Systems The key factors in delivering innovative department.
My role includes creating, How Ultra manages its people maintaining and supporting the use of an solutions to meet customers needs are Ultras Ultra values the autonomy of its businesses increasing number of business tools deep understanding of its specialist capability and believes a high degree of operational throughout Ultras different departments, areas combined with knowledge of the users autonomy enables businesses to focus on while gaining valuable experience of how environments.
Ultra maintains its domain delivering agile and responsive solutions to the business functions.
expertise by ensuring that employees maintain its customers.
continuing professional development and How long have you been here?
close links with customers and end-users of Overall Ive worked with Ultra for just over The Managing Directors and Presidents of Ultras products.
The Group ensures it has the seven years.
I started as an A-level student Ultras individual businesses and their right people to work with customers to through an Arkwright Scholarship at the management teams are given as much support their needs by understanding their end of my GCSEs, coming to Ultra for authority and responsibility as possible.
This problems and creating winning solutions.
work experience and help with school allows these teams to maintain the agility projects.
I then continued my work and sharp focus that is typical of smaller experience with Ultra every holiday owner-managed businesses.
throughout my university course, where my group and individual dissertation projects were supplied by Ultra.
Once I graduated from university, I joined Ultra full time as a graduate engineer and have currently completed over half of the twoyear course.
What have you enjoyed most about this role?
I have enjoyed working at Ultra immensely!
The highly varied work that Ultra gives me has provided me with a challenging, but highly enjoyable, working environment.
Ultra has given me the opportunity to improve, expand and utilise my skill set.
I have been able to follow along my own career path knowing that the direction I am taking has all been of my own decision.
Developing Ultras people 47 Sustainability, people and culture Ultra is committed to securing the talent pipeline and developing people to ensure the continued growth and success of the Group.
Focus is placed on ensuring that the right people are in the right roles.
Furthermore businesses are responsible for and encouraged to develop their teams and individuals continuously, which will enable people to grow with the business and not become a constraint on the development of the Group.
Culture Leadership: Good leadership is essential The Group believes its culture is what drives to Ultra and a number of models of Ultras success and that this includes aspects leadership are incorporated in the such as values, role models, processes and the development and training programmes behaviours of its employees.
As the Group that are delivered around the Group.
expands through organic growth, natural staff turnover and acquisitions, Ultra is committed Entrepreneurship: Being entrepreneurial to keeping its culture strong.
The Groups is a behaviour which underpins the culture, values and behaviours are shaped by Groups strategy.
All Ultra businesses seek the guiding principles, in particular the call for to provide customers with solutions an efficient organisation with engaged and which are different from, and better committed people.
than, those of our competitors.
Ultras Growth through engagement entrepreneurial culture seeks to maximise To achieve this, Ultra has identied four LAUNCH is a set of behaviours which the the capability to generate exceptional cultural behaviours of its people that are Group has developed to facilitate customer ideas and the business skills needed to highly valued and encouraged.
These are: engagement and relationship building.
bring them successfully to market.
Leadership, Entrepreneurship, Audacity and L Listen to customers Paranoia.
Together, they are known within Audacity: Audacious thinking is the the Group as LEAP.
A Ask the right questions difference between incremental improvement and business U Understand what their painis transformation.
It takes the idea of N identify the customers Needs and get innovation, one of Ultras core values, and their agreement invites employees to think about issues in C Create a relationship, opportunity ways which are unconstrained by existing and solution norms, making use of creative approaches in every aspect of the Groups business.
Examine the bigger picture: how can Ultra maximise the scope and Paranoia: Paranoia, in the business value of the opportunity?
sense, is a concern and fear about competitors and what they may do.
It This approach ensures Ultra understands the also relates to concerns and fears about real needs of its customers: in addition, things which can go wrong internally.
For LAUNCH is a way for Ultras businesses to generate long-term customer relationships, Ultra, paranoia is important in focusing What people mean to Ultra its people on maximising their knowledge which leads to a better pipeline of Ultras aim of delivering an efficient of the competitive landscape, by opportunities and enables growth.
LAUNCH organisation, with engaged and committed constantly asking questions of the is aligned with the Groups approach to people to meet the Groups business systems engineering and project management.
Groups individual businesses, customers, commitments, is a goal all managers work teaming partners and suppliers.
towards and is a measure of their success.
The broad range of skills and capabilities of Ultras employees support the Groups success in innovating to meet customer needs.
The quality of Ultras leadership teams is constantly reviewed and improved as this is essential to the continuing growth and success of the Group.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report.
Developing Ultras people 48 Developing Ultras people continued Securing the talent pipeline Ultras focus is mainly engineering but extends UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES Ultra has been committed to developing to include other STEM subjects, as well as In addition to traditional career fairs, Ultra people ever since it was formed in 1993. finance and commercial disciplines.
The Group actively engages with lecturers and faculties There are a number of programmes which also sponsors students through their last years during degree courses as part of the excellent help the Group to attract the best people, as at school via the Arkwright Scholarship.
This links the Group maintains with universities well as encouraging students to develop provides students with support and mentoring around the world.
This allows Ultra access to careers in engineering or business.
during their studies and has led to more leading research and enables the Group to students electing to undertake STEM degree form relationships with students well before SCHOOLS courses.
Ultra is recognised as a major sponsor graduation.
The Group benets from working Ultra businesses engage with schools in the of the scheme and currently has eight with universities as it can collaborate on local community.
Relationships with schools scholars, many of whom were recognised at innovation and recruit students who can and colleges take a variety of forms, including this years awards ceremonies.
Ultra is currently work experience, longer work placements, sponsoring 17 university students and also visits as part of AS-level courses interview APPRENTICESHIPS provides a number of work placements as practice sessions, careers events, and Ultra Many Ultra businesses have well-established part of degree courses 23 in the UK and US employees supporting both lessons and after and successful apprenticeship programmes, in the last year.
Examples include: which have also historically provided the Group with engineering leaders.
The Group Ultra businesses provide opportunities for CIS has a STEM ambassador supporting runs apprenticeship schemes at most of its UK students to work on real projects via work local schools and a senior manager serves as businesses and currently has 42 apprentices in placements, co-operative programmes and a Local Area Board Member for the Career training in the UK.
internship schemes: all internships are paid Ready initiative at another local school.
for, to promote access to all.
The Group also There have been a number of notable successes: The EDT Engineering Education Scheme works with SEPnet to provide summer work for Sixth Form students, which runs for NCS has celebrated the graduation of its placements to students to help advance and nine months of the year, has been first group of apprentices after four years sustain physics as a strategically important adopted by Precision Controls Systems of hard work.
The four apprentices subject for the UK economy.
This year the students worked with completed their Advanced Apprenticeship SUCCESS STORIES employees to research and build a in Engineering Manufacturing and will Ultra PCS has formed relationships with prototype model for recovering electrical now successfully continue on to the next several universities resulting in seven energy on military vehicles.
stage of their Ultra career.
The success of offers of employment to undergraduates the 2012 intake has demonstrated the NCS undertakes many activities with local this year alone.
value of apprenticeships to both learners schools, including hosting pupils for site and the business.
Maritime Systems has received an award visits, attending next steps careers for the Best Co-op Student Employerin Three Advanced Apprentices at PCS are evenings and careers fairs, and presenting Nova Scotia.
continuing their academic qualications the Post 16 conference, which is attended and enrolled in degree courses at the by Heads of Sixth Form, careers advisors 3 Phoenix is currently working with ten interns University of West England: their Advanced and local authority.
from their partner Universities and Colleges.
Apprenticeships mean they are able to start Command & Sonar Systems received a at the 2.2 level rather than entry level.
certicate in recognition of working in At the Engineering Trust awards, three partnership with Birmingham City University apprentices were recognised for first-year as well as being an Uxbridge College achievements and endeavour, two for Employer Champion.
third-year achievements and endeavour INSTITUTIONS and one was Electrical Student of the Year.
Ultras UK businesses are members of In addition to this, two apprentices have Engineering UK, Cyber Challenge UK and been shortlisted for the prestigious other bodies that research and develop new National Skills Academy for Nuclear ways to attract people into engineering Apprentice of the Year Awards.
careers, as well as helping to forecast future trends in the sector.
Ultra businesses worldwide have a variety of links with their local business forums and chambers of commerce members, helping to encourage STEM activities.
STEM: Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Developing Ultras people 49 Sustainability, people and culture Ultra actively invests in, and supports, the training and development of its employees.
UK data Training and development Employees 2,204 Ultra actively invests in, and supports, the training and development of its employees.
Apprentices 42 As a Group, Ultra has invested in its Learning University placement students 7 Academy, an online portal, and is available to all of the Groups businesses to support Sponsored university students 3 training.
Individually each business is Arkwright scholars 11 responsible for identifying the training needs of its employees and managing its own US data training budget.
Employee performance and Employees 1,700 development reviews are held at least Undergraduate interns 16 annually and are used to identify the development needs of individuals.
New graduates 5 Training and Many of the courses in the Learning Employees working on Academy are tailored to the specic development in action graduate-level degrees 14 requirements of Ultra, and the trainers have As a part of its commitment to supporting an intimate knowledge of how the Group employees, 2016 saw the completion of operates across all of its businesses.
These Ultras new Training and Development training events include programmes on Suite based in Cheltenham, UK.
The leadership and management, along with centre allows up to 21 people, at all levels workshops on Ultras successful competitive of the business, to increase their strategy, strategic selling, programme knowledge and take part in a variety of management and systems engineering.
Ultra sees Specic training programmes are also this as a ground-breaking opportunity to provided for individuals as necessary.
encourage its people to grow and develop a variety of skills including International To give students access to real-life current Trafc in Arms Regulation ITAR work challenges, and to enable Ultra Awareness, Human Factors in the Work employees to develop their management and Place, Foreign Object Damage FOD and leadership skills, there are opportunities to external Northern Advisory Council for participate in national schemes, such as the Further Education NCFE Level 2 training.
Engineering Education Scheme run by the As well as these professional skills the Engineering Development Trust and training centre also encourages people to competitions promoting STEM careers.
Ultras drop in and learn more practical skills such businesses have also developed corporate as using computers and tablets, and partnerships with engineering institutions, sending emails.
The success of the centre including the Institution of Engineering and and the enthusiastic response from Technology, in order to support and encourage employees demonstrates Ultras employees to pursue professional recognition commitment to helping its people in the form of CEng, IEng or EngTech status develop, and the fostering of an for both their current and previous work and environment in which employees are keen academic achievements.
Developing Ultras people 50 Developing Ultras people continued Succession planning and retention Ultra has been able to appoint a high Each of Ultras businesses prepares an annual proportion of its leaders at Board, divisional Organisation, Succession & Development and business levels through internal Plan to ensure that Ultra has the right people promotion.
This is because the succession in the right place in the organisation.
The plan planning element of the process aims to assesses individuals performance in their ensure that there are always suitable current role and their potential to perform a successors for all the management team larger role in the short or longer term.
roles across each business and for other senior-level roles.
Assessments are recorded in Ultras Talent & Succession system and give a performance Internal appointments at Executive Team, versus potential rating for each employee.
divisional and MD President level % The system is used by businesses to ensure a 2016 80% supply of suitable talent is available when required and recognises that any role within 2015 100% Ultra may become more challenging as the 2014 60% business grows.
The performance categories consist of exceeds, meets, partially 2013 71% meets or does not meet the required performance level.
Equal attention is given to 2012 75% enhancing the performance and retention of those who meet and exceed standard As well as the people listed as successors, Where an individual performance levels and to addressing the each business also identies people with high challenges of the people who fall into the potential.
The combined list represents Ultras is not meeting the partially meets or does not meet high-potential talent pool and is used categories.
Where an individual is not regularly to nd the right people to ll standard performance meeting the standard performance level, it internal vacancies via the Groups Talent & often means that they need to be placed in a Succession system.
Ultra businesses attend level, it often means that role more suited to their talents in which they graduate and undergraduate fairs, utilising they need to be placed can start to exceed the required standard.
current graduates as the Groups ambassadors.
Attendance has seen The Group is able to create its next generation in a role more suited to applications for graduate schemes increase, of business leaders, through developing and and this in turn helps to ensure that there is a retaining those employees identied as having their talents.
future supply of engineers for the Group.
high potential who will be able to take up the Ultra continuously recruits new employees challenge of continuing the growth of Ultra.
and acquisitions in order to bring additional The Group has a high retention rate of those new people into the Ultra family.
individuals in the businesses senior management teams who continually meet or Retention of high-performers exceed expectations in terms of their performance, or who are high-potential and 2016 98% still developing in their new role.
