DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS latest trends, and how-to videos on a digital platform.
The acquisition OUR CONSUMERS of Dollar Shave Club brought us a direct-to-consumer business model that thrives on insights generated from rich relationships with PERSONAL CARE its members.
PERSONAL CARE IS UNILEVERS LARGEST CATEGORY WITH A The Unilever-wide Connected 4 Growth transformation programme TURNOVER OF 20.2 BILLION IN 2016, ACCOUNTING FOR 38% is helping evolve the Personal Care organisation so that we continue OF UNILEVERS TURNOVER AND 48% OF OPERATING PROFIT.
to grow ahead of our markets.
Global strengths are increasingly Unilever is one of the big three global players in Personal Care, with combined with local insights to make initiatives more consumer and a growth rate that continues to outpace the market.
It includes five customer-centric, with ways of working becoming faster and simpler.
1 billion brands: Axe, Dove, Lux, Rexona and Sunsilk.
FOODS Personal Cares strategic role is to deliver competitive growth of the FOODS GENERATED TURNOVER OF 12.5 BILLION IN 2016, core brands while premiumising the overall portfolio.
In 2016 the ACCOUNTING FOR 24% OF UNILEVERS TURNOVER AND category continued to execute its strategy and delivered underlying 28% OF OPERATING PROFIT.
It includes 1 billion brands Knorr and Hellmanns, both of which are Dove continued its global Self Esteem Project, helping the next Sustainable Living brands.
Alongside global brands, we have iconic generation of women to realise their full potential, and helping make local brands such as Bango in Indonesia, Robertsons in South Africa beauty a source of confidence, not anxiety.
In 2016, Dove unveiled a and Kissan in India.
new campaign in India, Lets Break the Rules of Beauty, aimed at inspiring India to embrace its own diversity and widening beauty ideals The categorys strategic role is to accelerate top-line growth while beyond current stereotypes.
The centrepiece of the campaign was an maintaining profitability and its strong cash contribution.
online film that captured 85 real women from across India To achieve this, the category has three priorities: accelerating growth celebrating their own ideal of beauty.
in emerging markets, which now account for more than 40% of sales: In 2016 Axe announced a bold new direction with a campaign that took modernising our portfolio to address changing consumer habits: and a progressive point of view on masculinity and attractiveness.
preserving value in the Baking, Cooking and Spreads BCS business Contributing to Unilevers #unstereotype initiative, Axe called on men Europe and North America.
all over the world to Find Your Magic, offering a broader range of We made solid progress in 2016 against these goals, although markets male grooming products to help men work on their individual style, remained challenging and volatile, characterised by acceleration of local and in doing so challenge stereotypical notions of masculinity.
The new competition, ongoing price deflation in Europe and currency devaluation range includes daily fragrances, hair styling, body washes, and in emerging markets.
This highlights the importance of Unilevers antiperspirants.
Brand performance has improved in a number of Connected 4 Growth programme to transform the organisation, making geographies and brand equity was stronger, but continued focus and us leaner, fitter and more empowered to tackle the challenges we face.
investment are required in 2017 to improve financial contribution consistently across all countries.
In 2016, underlying sales growth improved to 2.1% thanks to an acceleration in Knorr and Hellmanns and strong positive momentum The growth of our core brands was fuelled by innovation and equity in savoury, dressings and Food Solutions.
Sales in emerging markets expanded by over 7%, broadly ahead of Growth in hair care was supported by innovations such as TRESemm market.
Growth has been particularly strong in Latin America, Africa Beauty-Full Volume.
This is a unique reverse system, first using and South East Asia, with all markets showing double-digit growth.
conditioner to soften hair, then shampoo to wash away weight, Except for South East Asia, where Bango continued to be a key growth improving volume-seekers product experience and beauty results.
driver, underlying sales growth has been predominantly price-led, with In our deodorants business, Rexona Antibacterial Defence built on its volume lagging.
2015 launch and is now present in more than 40 countries, helping In both Europe and the US, consumers continue to seek greater trust fight the bacteria which cause body odour with 48 hours of protection.
and transparency from products along with new taste experiences and Personal Care is also home to several brands which are driving healthier options.
In response, we modernised our portfolio by Unilevers purpose of making sustainable living commonplace.
reformulating existing products and launching new organic and 100% In addition to Dove, these include Lifebuoy and Signal, which we natural variants under Hellmanns and Knorr respectively.
We saw good categorise as Sustainable Living brands.
growth in our US dressings business, and both Hellmanns and Knorr grew market share in a highly competitive environment.
We are under-represented in the premium segment of the global Personal Care market and so we continued to build our market share In BCS, we repositioned key brands to feature their plant-based origins in this fast-growing market segment.
We strengthened and expanded which showed early signs of success.
We also implemented a leaner, our premium brands such as TRESemm and Zendium, and launched more market-facing organisation.
However, these have not stemmed and supported premium ranges and formats including Dove Advanced the overall decline of the category driven by changing consumer Hair Series and Signal White Now.
There were no fundamental changes to the negative trend in Europe and the US.
Our acquisition of brands such as Dollar Shave Club in the male grooming segment and Living Proof in early 2017, the premium hair Our sustainability mission Food that tastes good, does good and care business, demonstrated active management of our portfolio.
We doesnt cost the earth remains at the heart of our category strategy.
also continued to build the prestige skin care brands acquired in 2015: For instance, we have improved food fortification with Blue Band in Dermalogica: Murad: Kate Somerville: and REN.
Africa and continue to promote healthy, nutritious cooking with Knorr and made reducing food waste a priority in Food Solutions.
The digital revolution is quickly changing how we do business and how we build brands.
Responding quickly to these opportunities is 2016 also saw a step-change in our digital marketing to respond to an important priority for the Personal Care category.
Communication changing consumer and media trends.
This includes the successful for our brands increasingly makes the most of digital channels, from Hellmanns #strangewich activation in the US and the ground-breaking video or display to social media and search.
The Axe Find Your Magic Knorr #LoveAtFirstTaste film, which generated around 2.1 billion campaign took a digitally-led multi-channel approach, while All Things impressions and well over 100 million YouTube views.
Hair, our content-rich online channel, offers hair ideas, insights on 14 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 HOME CARE REFRESHMENT HOME CARE GENERATED TURNOVER OF 10.0 BILLION IN REFRESHMENT GENERATED TURNOVER OF 10.0 BILLION 2016, ACCOUNTING FOR 19% OF UNILEVERS TURNOVER IN 2016, ACCOUNTING FOR 19% OF UNILEVERS TURNOVER AND 12% OF OPERATING PROFIT.
It includes 1 billion brands Dirt is Good and Surf as well as other It includes 1 billion brands such as Heartbrand e. g. Walls, Magnum household names including Comfort, Sunlight, Domestos and our and Lipton.
Lipton, Ben & Jerrys and Breyers are Sustainable Living water purification brand, Pureit.
Dirt is Good, Domestos and Radiant brands.
Refreshments strategic role is to grow ice cream returns on capital The category generates 80% of its sales in emerging markets where and accelerate growth in tea.
Underlying sales grew 3.5% in 2016 as strong future growth is most likely and holds the number one position in a result of a focus on our core brands, premiumising the portfolio 7 out of its top 10 markets.
and delivering best in class retail execution, both in customers' stores and Unilevers own retail channels.
Home Cares strategic role is to step up profitability and scale household care.
It made good progress delivering on this strategy during 2016, In 2016 ice cream delivered strong growth and profitability, increasing its generating underlying sales growth of 4.9% while expanding operating presence in a growing and dynamic sector, with continued progress in margin by 2.2 percentage points.
It achieved this by simplifying its our strongholds of Europe and North America, and Asian regions and operations, increasing efficiencies and providing consumers the Turkey showing good results.
Brazil fared less well due to growing opportunity to trade up through premium offerings.
economic uncertainty which impacted summer sales.
Ice cream sales were helped by strong brands and new formats which address new This performance was delivered in a rapidly evolving consumer occasions to consume, responding to consumers on-the-go lives.
environment that witnessed intensifying competition both globally and locally, presenting opportunities as well as challenges for Home Profitability also increased thanks to successful innovations behind Cares brands.
We launched the Magnum Double range and in the US Ben & Jerrys extended into a range of non-dairy ice creams, Rapid urbanisation and more women in the workforce mean meeting the consumer demand for plant-based alternative formats.
households have more income, and better homes and clothes, but less Ben & Jerrys also launched its Wich format in Europe, extending time for household tasks.
Cif responded by expanding its Ultrafast and beyond the successful pint format into a new cookie and ice cream Power & Shine range of trigger sprays, delivering efficacy and product that can be eaten on the go.
convenience while growing market share for household care.
Dirt is Good addressed the need for greater convenience by launching With purpose and sustainability at its heart, Ben & Jerrys continued ancillaries in Argentina, Chile and Colombia.
Skip sharpened its brand to create movements for social change.
For instance, advocacy proposition with an innovative campaign which started its rollout to 11 campaigns in the US and UK encouraged people to exercise their right markets, meeting fashion lovers demands for superior garment care.
Higher disposable incomes and an appetite for improved fragrance and The Walls Talking Ice Cream campaign was extended to 30 countries longer lasting garment freshness fuelled growth in the fabric in 2016, successfully driving brand growth and strengthening equity conditioner market in which Comfort Intense, the ultra-concentrated across the range.
Our local brands have enjoyed particular success fabric conditioner, continued to grow.
under the Talking Ice Cream campaign.
In 2016, the UK campaign was Urbanisation combined with water stress and pollution results in awarded a Silver IPA Effectiveness Award in recognition of the strong consumers becoming more concerned about health, hygiene and the ROI generated by the campaign over the past years.
Although existing brands such as Domestos and Pureit sector generally continued to witness the impact of consolidation were already responding to this concern, in 2016 Home Care stepped among international competitors.
up its response to these issues through strategic acquisitions.
These Responding to the nutritional needs of our consumers remains a comprised Blueair, a pioneer of premium air purifiers which also priority.
We continue to work on ensuring that 100% of our childrens introduced a new and fast-growing product category into Home Care, ice cream brands have fewer than 110 calories and 91% of our and Seventh Generation, a leading manufacturer of plant-based packaged ice cream products do not exceed 250 calories per portion products with a strong Millennial following.
calculated based on 97% of global ice cream sales volume.
We have a As consumers grow increasingly aware of the impact their choices have clear policy on marketing to children and continue to work with the on the world around them, the need for a brand to also be meaningful wider industry.
Our sugar reduction in our sweetened tea-based and have a strong purpose becomes imperative.
To this end the beverages continues, consistent with our USLP commitment to help categorys brands are key to realising Unilevers Purpose of making people achieve a healthier diet.
In tea we continued to build our presence in more premium segments In 2016, Surf established a three-year partnership with Oxfam to alleviate whilst strengthening the core products.
Our Brooke Bond Family in India the burden of unpaid care work on women and Sunlight introduced a continued to grow, helped by a series of engaging films highlighting revolutionary water-saving formulation in South Africa, halving the people coming together over a cup of tea to overcome prejudice and amount of water and time required for laundry.
Together, these films generated around 10 million views and its partners, including UNICEF, continued their work to help around during 2016 helping Brooke Bond regain its market leading position.
6 million people gain improved access to a toilet through behaviour Meanwhile, Liptons Be A Maker digital campaign highlighted the lives change interventions and capacity-building initiatives.
behind the leaves of Liptons tea farmers in Kenya.
The social media campaign ran in November 2016 with very positive engagement results The connected, digital world is not only changing how consumers buy amongst its target Millennial audience in key markets.
PG tips in the UK Home Care products but also giving rise to stronger local competition.
had a more challenging year with negative growth.
Home Care is building digital capabilities to enhance its brands and innovations while utilising digital retail channels such as direct to Lipton launched Matcha into the green tea segment in the US while we consumer.
It used this channel successfully in 2016 to launch the also launched Pure Leaf in the US as a premium proposition in hot tea.
Neutral brand into the UK, offering household, face, skin and baby care Building on the success of Pure Leaf ready to drink brand in the US, products, all free from perfumes or colourants.
the range has been extended into premium leaf teas.
Underpinning these achievements was a strong focus on end to end value creation to improve margins and cash generation, driving profitability through lower costs and simpler, more efficient operations.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 15
