DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED This year we have seen our LinkedIn presence grow significantly, OUR PEOPLE reaching the key milestone of 2 million followers, highlighting how LinkedIn followers are engaging with our content.
Half of our PEOPLE ARE OUR MOST POWERFUL RESOURCE TO followers are entry level professionals.
TRANSFORM OUR BUSINESS, DRIVEN BY OUR CLEAR We were ranked the number one FMCG company and the number 8 PURPOSE TO MAKE SUSTAINABLE LIVING COMMONPLACE.
company overall to work for on the LinkedIn Top Attractors global list Our continued success is constantly challenged in a world where based on our ability to attract and retain talent.
More than 100,000 of change is happening at an ever faster pace fuelled by the rapid take-up our employees are active LinkedIn users.
We have also raised of digital technology.
Consumers are far more responsive and visibility of the LinkedIn Elevate platform where Unilever curated sensitive to changing trends and attitudes, opening up new content can be shared by Unilever people with their social networks, opportunities for entrepreneurial competitors who are agile and allowing them to act as ambassadors for the business, enhancing our flexible in approach.
visibility, creating brand awareness and communicating our values.
The initiative has reached more than 190 million members of During 2016 our people have been at the centre of a major organisational LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook.
change programme, Connected 4 Growth C4G, one of the largest and most significant change initiatives undertaken by Unilever.
The key In July 2016 we launched our new digital selection process for graduate objectives are to create an organisation that is faster, more agile and more hires that uses the latest technology to help select candidates that best competitive.
Through C4G we want our people to think and behave meet Unilevers requirements.
The new process removes the potential for unconscious bias in recruitment.
The flexible process is quick and differently, making them more empowered, giving them the opportunity to interactive, with candidates receiving feedback at every stage.
experiment and encouraging them to think and act like entrepreneurs and business owners.
These changes will be key in attracting the right people First, candidates complete an online application form.
Successful to achieve our goals.
candidates are then invited to complete a series of games over a 20- minute period which allows Unilever to gain insight into the candidates By 2020, 60% of our employees are expected to be Millennials and we potential and how well they connect with the Unilevers goals and need new employment strategies that reflect both their changing purpose.
The best candidates will then take part in a video interview.
attitudes to work and the fast changing world in which we expect our people to compete and perform.
The skills our people need are also For the final stage of the process, candidates are invited to a changing rapidly.
According to the World Economic Forum, on average, Discovery Centre to collaborate and experience a day in the life of by 2020 more than a third of the desired core skill sets will have changed Unilever.
At every stage feedback is provided to help them in their and nearly 35% of the core skills required for key roles in future are career whether or not they are successful in joining Unilever.
currently missing from the equivalent roles today.
RETAINING TALENT The vision of our Human Resources function is to be simpler, with more In line with C4G we have also introduced significant changes to impact in order to accelerate business growth.
This is being realised performance management to encourage feedback and development.
First, we are focusing our activities on WellThe objective is to encourage new ways of thinking, and build a more being, Talent, Learning and Reward.
Second, we are developing an agile agile and empowered organisation, with managers better able to and empowered organisation to build connected teams through support people who are being encouraged to experiment, fail, learn technology-driven approaches and, thirdly, we are building an and collaborate.
We are inverting the traditional structures, pushing organisation powered by purpose where all our people are able to reach responsibility and opportunity outwards into the organisation so their potential and thrive in the increasingly connected world.
A priority people can be more entrepreneurial with performance management during 2016 was to define the profile of future talent required by the that reflects this culture shift.
business and plan for the skills and capabilities required.
As part of C4G, managers are now equipped to understand individual To support our vision we have also made a step-change in the use of requirements, set targets and help navigate the necessary changes data and analytics to generate more accurate insights.
We are using with the right training and support, linked to our Learning Hub.
more sophisticated digital and mobile processes while applying new Always On conversations are encouraged more than ever so that performance and reward systems to offer more career development managers and their teams have more open discussions on opportunities and create a more empowered workforce.
Finally, through performance and feedback throughout the year and not just at mid C4G, we are encouraging our people to experiment and collaborate more or year-end.
to improve our top-line growth.
We are working to create a culture of development for all by removing labels and categorisations in our talent processes and promoting ATTRACTING TALENT individuals development needs.
Our reward principles are becoming Unilevers reputation as an employer of choice continues despite a simpler with fewer reward elements which are in turn focused on highly competitive market place.
Our purpose-led goals consistently short-term performance and long-term value creation to encourage a support our position as employer of choice across the world.
During more entrepreneurial approach and an owners attitude.
2016, we were the number one FMCG Graduate Employer of Choice in 34 of the 60 countries that we recruit from.
We recognise that to get the best out of our people and help them thrive in the world of work, we need to look after more than just their Unilevers Future Leaders League, our global competition for professional development.
Their physical, mental, and emotional wellstudents, continues to grow.
For the 2016 finals, almost 40,000 being also needs attention to help engender a strong sense of purpose, applications were received across 59 countries and 1,120 universities.
matching Unilevers own clear Purpose of making sustainable living The recent launch of our social media campaign #PutItRight commonplace.
Since 2015, more than 41,430 people have been generated 108 million impressions and reached 9.8 million unique through our Thrive Programme to help improve well-being including users globally.
Our objective is to change the conversation around issues such as eating healthily in a busy work environment, sleep, how Millennials are defined, helping them reach their full potential.
fitness, well-being and practical ways of managing energy levels.
Our commitment to sustainability, brought to life through the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, is critical to engaging with this generation.
20 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 LEARNING HUMAN RIGHTS Learning and building capability is critical in the connected world, Respecting human rights is enshrined in the USLP.
To with skills evolving at pace.
In response, our Learning team has comprehensively implement and embed our human rights approach focused on igniting a passion for learning and fostering an Always we have now integrated our human rights function into our supply On learning culture.
The Learning Hub, our collaborative digital chain organisation.
The resulting team has been renamed Integrated learning platform, is supporting this shift.
Our people can access Social Sustainability, reflecting our commitment to creating a positive bite-sized, just-in-time learning that is both engaging and mobilesocial impact as part of Unilevers Vision and highlighting the social enabled, featuring industry experts.
dimension of the sustainability agenda.
Building on the work done with our senior leaders in recent years, Under the Global VP Integrated Social Sustainability, this team now we are giving all our people an opportunity to discover their unique has responsibility for all areas of Supply Chain Social Sustainability purpose, with pilots in five countries to encourage better performance including accountability, compliance and audit which have moved from and well-being.
The team continues to lead on the global human rights agenda for Unilever.
Four Acres, our leadership development centres in London and Singapore, continue to make a critical contribution to our business We continue to work to strengthen certification, particularly relating to performance.
They also provide next steps to focus on the importance working conditions.
In 2013 we gave Oxfam access to our supply chain of purpose with impact.
Our development of leaders for the connected in order to assess labour rights and help us understand how to realise world has never been more focused, and more than 1,600 executives the UN Guiding Principles.
It focused on our operations in Vietnam.
have attended leadership development programmes in 2016.
We agreed an update with Oxfam in 2016, which was published in July, highlighting the substantial progress made in Vietnam and the broader SAFETY work undertaken to embed human rights across our organisation.
It We continue to focus on our Vision Zero strategy: Zero Fatalities: also highlights areas where we, and other companies, can improve.
Zero Injuries: Zero Motor Vehicle Accidents: Zero Process Incidents: During 2016 we rolled out our new Framework for Fair Compensation and Zero Tolerance of Unsafe Behaviour and Practices.
Vision Zero to all our Country HR Leadership teams.
The Framework outlines how is designed to ensure we meet our USLP commitment to reduce the existing elements of our compensation packages deliver fair workplace injuries and accidents.
In 2016 we announced that we want In 2015 we put new measures in place to create an interdependent to achieve full Living Wage compliance for all our employees by 2020. safety culture.
In 2016 we pressed ahead with adding capability, The Framework also reinforces our commitment to no discrimination building professionalism and focusing on leadership responsibility to between genders on pay or career development.
We will build on our implement our safety culture.
existing equal pay practices through gender pay gap analysis to identify future initiatives in support of this.
A priority has been to ensure safety is a responsibility throughout Unilever.
We have rolled out a mandatory safety leadership DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION programme, which builds awareness of safety from the top down, to On gender equality we continue to make progress, although work help managers instil best practice throughout their teams.
By the end of 2016, 46% of our total management were Our process and construction safety director, appointed in mid-2015, women, up from 45% in 2015.
At the most senior levels, however, has delivered process safety training and certification programmes the ratios are not as high.
Among the Top 100 executives, 22 22% were women compared with 23% in 2015.
If you include employees that are important career development qualifications for the supply who are statutory directors of the corporate entities whose financial chain.
Additionally, an enhanced set of process safety global standards information is included in the Groups 2016 consolidated accounts in will be launched in 2017.
Process safety oversight compliance audits this Annual Report and Accounts, the number increases to 410 males have been extended to all high and medium-hazard sites overseen and and 157 28% females.
43% six out of 14 of the Board is female, facilitated by the global Process Safety Leadership Team.
compared with 50% six out of 12 in 2015.
We continue to implement our mandatory Motor On Mobile Off policy Of our total workforce of 168,832, 112,618 67% were male and through new training for joiners and refreshers for existing workers 56,214 33% were female at the end of 2016, at risk from using mobile phones when driving.
We also continue to integrate our BeSafE programme into our World Class Manufacturing WCM methodology.
Unilever reports safety data from October to September.
Our Total Recordable Frequency Rate TRFR from 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016 went from 1.12 accidents per 1 million hours worked to 1.01, as a result of the continuous focus on safety in WCM methodology and the BeSafE programme in our non-manufacturing sites.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 21
