REPORT OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE MEETINGS COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE Meetings are held quarterly and ad hoc as required.
The Committee Chairman reports the conclusions to the Boards.
Four meetings were ATTENDANCE held in 2016.
Taking into account the Committees terms of reference, Unilevers corporate risks and the priorities the Committee sets itself Louise Fresco for the year, the Committee works to a structured agenda, enabling 4 4 Chair members to focus in detail on the responsibilities assigned to them.
Laura Cha 4 4 The agenda covers Unilevers Code of Business Principles the Code, Youngme Moon Member since April 2016 2 2 litigation and investigations alongside occupational safety, product Feike Sijbesma 4 4 safety and quality, the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP and This table shows the membership of the Committee together with their corporate reputation as well as a range of strategic and current attendance at meetings during 2016.
If Directors are unable to attend a issues.
In order to help the Committee meet its oversight meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda items responsibilities, each year management organise knowledge sessions with the Committee Chair.
Attendance is expressed as the number of for the Committee on subject areas within its remit.
In 2016 a joint meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
session was held with the Audit Committee on the USLP, which included an update on how the USLP has evolved, how it is governed and how its progress is assessed.
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2016 CODE OF BUSINESS PRINCIPLES Review of Unilevers Code of Business Principles, Responsible The Code and associated Code Policies set out the standards of Sourcing Policy and business integrity plans conduct expected of all employees in their business endeavours.
Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Compliance with these is an essential element in ensuring Unilevers continued business success.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for implementing these principles, supported by the Global Code and PRIORITIES FOR 2017 Policy Committee which is chaired by the Chief Legal Officer.
Compliance with Code of Business Principles The Committee is responsible for the oversight of the Code and Progress on the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP Code Policies, ensuring that they remain fit for purpose and are - Climate strategy appropriately applied.
The Audit Committee also considers the Code - Enhancing livelihoods as part of its remit to review financial and accounting issues.
In 2016 Product quality and safety the Code and updated Code Policies were published in a single document on Unilevers website.
TERMS OF REFERENCE The Committee maintains close scrutiny of mechanisms for The Corporate Responsibility Committee oversees Unilevers conduct implementing the Code and Code Policies as ongoing compliance is as a responsible multinational business.
The Committee is also essential to promote and protect Unilevers values and standards, charged with ensuring that Unilevers reputation is protected and and hence the good reputation of the Group.
At each meeting the enhanced.
A central element of the Committees role is the need to Committee reviews the information on investigations into alleged identify any external developments that are likely to have an influence non-compliance with the Code and Code Policies and is alerted to upon Unilevers standing in society and to bring these to the attention any trends arising from such investigations and findings.
In addition, the Committee monitors compliance with Unilevers The Committee comprises four Non-Executive Directors: Louise Responsible Sourcing Policy for suppliers and the roll-out of its Fresco, who chairs the Committee, Laura Cha, Feike Sijbesma and Responsible Business Partner Policy for other third-party Youngme Moon, who was appointed to the Committee on 21 April 2016. business partners.
The Chief Marketing & Communications Officer attends the The Committee studied the Groups new roadmap to enhance business Committees meetings.
integrity, which has a particular focus on supporting responsible The Committees discussions are informed by the perspectives of the growth across Unilevers businesses worldwide.
This captures an Groups two sustainability leadership groups, both of which are chaired enhanced understanding of priority focus areas and targeted solutions by the Chief Marketing & Communications Officer.
The first is the to address these.
Alongside this, enhanced tools for reporting Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Council a group of experts from whistleblowing and tracking the review of alleged breaches of the outside the Group who advise Unilevers senior leadership on its Code have been put in place.
To complement this improved capability, sustainability strategy.
The second is the Unilever Sustainable Living state of the art training materials have been developed including Plan Steering Team the group of Unilevers senior executives who are specialist guidance for roll-out through Unilevers Legal Academy.
accountable for driving sustainable growth.
The insights from these Equally importantly, Unilever continues to push for collective action groups, and the subsequent reports from the Committee to the Boards, externally to uphold human rights and fight corruption.
It is help to keep the Boards informed of current and emerging trends and represented in key arenas and contributes to consolidating contacts any potential risks arising from sustainability issues.
between chief compliance officers from European multinationals to During 2016 the Committee reviewed its terms of reference and, on drive momentum in this field.
the recommendation of the Committee, the Boards approved minor SAFETY changes to the terms.
The Committee reviews quarterly scorecard analyses of progress on The Committees terms of reference and details of the Unilever occupational safety and product safety.
These scorecards are Sustainable Living Plan Council are available on Unilevers website at complemented by regular in-depth discussions so that Committee www.
com corporategovernance and members may reassure themselves that Unilevers systems and www.
44 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 In 2016, the Committee noted that Unilevers Security function is LITIGATION REVIEW working hard to keep employees safe in a world where terror attacks The Chief Legal Officer reports to the Committee on litigation and and security challenges are on the increase.
It works closely with regulatory matters which may have a reputational impact including country teams and Unilevers Workplace Services function to ensure environmental issues, bribery and corruption compliance and that its safe travel and security practices are adhered to.
For further information please see notes 19 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE LIVING PLAN USLP Unilevers Purpose is to make sustainable living commonplace and EVALUATION OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY the USLP is at the heart of Unilevers vision to accelerate growth in COMMITTEE the business whilst reducing its environmental footprint and As part of the internal Board evaluation carried out in 2016, the Boards increasing its positive social impact.
Given its strategic importance, evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The Committee also the Committee monitors progress against the USLP and any carried out an assessment of its own performance in 2016.
Whilst potential risks arising from it.
In 2016 the Committee scrutinised overall the Committee members concluded that the Committee is performance across the ambitious environmental pillars of the performing effectively, the Committee agreed that to further enhance USLP, studying in depth its progress and plans for combating its effectiveness it will step up oversight of safety and security given greenhouse gas emissions and reducing water use and waste.
the importance of protecting the people working for Unilever.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee will maintain its independent view Unilever recognises that change needs to be driven on a much wider of Unilever, and will keep this view centre-stage in its critique of the scale to tackle the worlds major social, environmental and economic Groups reputation and standing in society.
issues what is needed is fundamental transformational change to broader systems.
The adoption of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals has brought new impetus to this agenda and Louise Fresco reflects the growing support for an integrated approach to these Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee issues.
Unilever continues to combine its own actions with external advocacy on public policy and joint working with partners.
It is Laura Cha tackling four areas where it has the scale, influence and resources to Youngme Moon make a difference: Feike Sijbesma taking action on climate change and halting deforestation improving livelihoods and creating more opportunities for women Further details on the USLP will be set out in Unilevers online Sustainable Living improving health and well-being Report 2016, to be published in May 2017. championing sustainable agriculture and food security.
com sustainable-living MONITORING REPUTATION A global business working in many countries experiences numerous issues that may impact the business.
It is crucial therefore that the Committee is briefed on the processes in place for managing these.
Unilever has a well-established system for identifying and responding to issues, both short and longer-term.
In addition, the Committee reviews a selection of the top issues in more detail each year.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 45
