DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED The luxury tea segment, where our T2 business is positioned, to at least one of our USLP goals.
Our Sustainable Living brands for experienced good growth throughout the year.
T2 also added 13 new 2016 will be announced in May 2017 once the analysis is complete.
stores mainly in Australia and the UK, expanding the chain to 89 The USLP has three clear goals: to help more than 1 billion people stores in total.
A new e-commerce platform for T2 has also seen improve their health and well-being by 2020: to halve the environmental strong sales growth.
impact of our products across the value chain by 2030: and to enhance We announced an agreement to dispose of our AdeS soy beverage the livelihoods of millions as we grow our business by 2020. business in Latin America, continuing the active management of our To date we have made significant progress on our first big USLP goal brand portfolio to sharpen our focus on growth.
of helping more than 1 billion people improve their health and wellbeing.
By the end of 2016, we had reached 538 million people, led by the success of Sustainable Living brands such as Lifebuoy, Dove and Signal.
In addition, 35% of our Foods portfolio met the highest SOCIETY nutritional standards, based on globally recognised dietary guidelines.
WE ARE TAKING COLLECTIVE ACTION ACROSS OUR VALUE Our manufacturing operations are important to realising our second CHAIN TO TACKLE THE MOST PRESSING ISSUES OF OUR goal of reducing our environmental impact.
IT IS THE RIGHT THING TO DO, AND THE ONLY WAY TO CO from energy by 43%, water abstraction by 37% and total waste 2 GROW OUR BUSINESS SUSTAINABLY.
disposed by 96% per tonne of production.
The latter is a slight fall in performance as total waste per tonne of production disposed fell to Unilever creates value for society in many ways, be they shareholders, 96% from 97% in 2015.
This was due to changes in local regulation in consumers, society at large or around 169,000 employees who make two countries restricting recycling routes and issues at a recently a vital contribution to our Purpose of making sustainable living acquired site that have now been resolved.
Our products are sold in more than 190 countries, generating income and employment for retailers and distributors who When it comes to reducing the environmental impact of how consumers bring our brands to consumers.
We also create value for suppliers use our products, we continue to find this difficult.
Since 2010, the water in 2016 we purchased 34 billion of goods and services.
impact of our products has reduced by around 7%, while the waste associated with consumer disposal of our products has reduced by Taxes pay for the public goods and services that benefit each and every rather more, around 28%, as recycling rates increase.
But the one of us, and effective taxation is the foundation of healthy societies.
greenhouse gas impact of our products across their lifecycle, including The taxes paid by businesses and as a direct result of business consumer use, continues to edge up and has now increased by around activity make an important contribution.
Total taxes borne by 8% since 2010.
The acquisition of skin cleansing and hair care brands Unilever in 2016 amounted to 4 billion, of which 2.3 billion was has increased the share of products associated with a higher corporation tax.
To build confidence in the tax system, it is especially greenhouse gas impact per consumer use.
These products are being important that business taxation is simple to understand, transparent, used by consumers while taking heated showers and baths.
and applied consistently, and that society trusts tax authorities to administer taxes fairly for all taxpayers.
Unilever fully complies with Our third USLP goal to enhance the livelihoods of millions of people the tax laws in the countries where we operate, but where the tax law has seen good progress.
67% of procurement spend was through is not clear or has not kept pace with the way modern business suppliers meeting our Responsible Sourcing Policys mandatory operates Unilever interprets its tax obligations in a responsible way.
Meanwhile we are conducting a review of the accountability At Unilever our Tax Principles provide this reference point further process to improve it based on the last two years experience.
A information is available on our website.
project of risk-mapping across the sourcing of our key commodities, such as tea, was also started during 2016 to identify our social We are proud of our contributions to society, because they reflect the footprint human rights risks and the procedures we have in place to hard work and dedication of generations of Unilever people and respond to any such risks identified.
We continue to work to stakeholders.
But we know that the success we enjoy, and the strengthen certification, particularly relating to working conditions.
contribution we make, depend in turn on the success and resilience Our progress on embedding human rights into our organisation of the economies and societies we operate in.
continued in 2016 and we have now integrated our human rights In these volatile and uncertain times, those societies face many urgent function into our supply chain organisation more details on page 21. challenges social, political and environmental.
We know that we, and In 2016, we also continued with a range of programmes to improve business as a whole, can and must do more to address them.
Under the Opportunities for Women pillar, we have enabled succeed, it will create the conditions for business to thrive.
around 920,000 women to access initiatives that aimed to promote That is why we introduced our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP their safety, develop their skills and expand their opportunities.
As part to leverage our scale, influence, expertise in innovation and resources of the Inclusive Business pillar, in 2016 we have enabled around to directly address issues that matter to people an approach that 650,000 smallholder farmers and 1.5 million small-scale retailers to strengthens our business so that it can grow sustainably.
access initiatives aiming to improve their agricultural practices or increase their incomes.
The number of small-scale retailers has UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE LIVING PLAN decreased from 1.8 million in 2015 following a rescoping of stores that The USLP, launched in 2010, is our blueprint for achieving our vision.
can benefit from the Perfect Store programme in India.
By spurring innovation, strengthening our supply chain, lowering costs, In 2016 Unilever was named leader of the Household & Personal reducing risks and building trust, sustainability is creating value for Products Industry Group in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI, Unilever as well as society.
We are one of only For example, we have achieved a cumulative cost avoidance of over 24 companies to be awarded Industry Group Leader status.
In 2016 700 million through eco-efficiency measures in our factories since we were also listed on the CDP Climate, Water and Forest A Lists.
2008, of which our waste programme has contributed to cost The USLP continues to evolve in response to the changing landscape.
In 2015 we had 12 Sustainable Living In January 2017 we announced a commitment to ensure that all of our brands which grew 30% faster than the rest of the business.
In 2016 plastic packaging is fully reusable, recyclable or compostable by 2025. these brands grew 40% faster than the rest and delivered nearly half of We will report on progress against this commitment in future reports.
They are brands which combine a strong purpose delivering a social or environmental benefit, with products contributing 16 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Despite our progress to date, there is still much to be done.
While We also worked with others on the systemic changes needed for we are on track to achieve most of our USLP commitments, we are climate action.
For example, commercial agriculture is the main driver also aware that the biggest challenges facing the world cannot be of deforestation, which accounts for up to 15% of global greenhouse addressed by one company acting alone.
We are changing ourselves gas emissions.
Together with others in our industry, we have as a business but we want to play a part in changing the way business committed to achieving zero net deforestation associated with four is done more broadly.
commodities palm oil, soy, paper and board, and beef no later than 2020.
We have extended this commitment to our tea businesses and ADVOCATING A NEW SOCIAL CONTRACT FOR BUSINESS supply chains.
The need for collective action and partnership between businesses and We work closely on climate action with a number of strategic partners: other stakeholders, and between businesses themselves, has never the We Mean Business coalition including the World Business Council been greater.
By doing the right thing and being part of the solution to for Sustainable Development WBCSD : HRH The Prince of Wales the world's challenges, businesses have the opportunity to win the Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change, The B-Team, and CERES: trust of consumers while helping create societies and economies in the World Economic Forum: the Consumer Goods Forum CGF and the which they can grow and succeed.
United Nations Global Compact Caring for Climate initiative.
The Paris Agreement and the publication of the UN's 17 Global Goals We also worked with the World Bank Group on the formal launch of for Sustainable Development referred to as the Global Goals in 2015 the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition at the World Bank Spring showed the world there was a movement towards combating climate Meetings in Washington DC in April 2016, which will advance the change, eradicating poverty, and promoting greater inclusion and pricing of carbon emissions and removal of market-distorting fossil economic prosperity one that would require widespread co-operation fuel subsidies.
Unilever holds the Vice-Chair of the industry-led Task Force on Throughout 2016, we sought to build on the momentum of these Climaterelated Financial Disclosures, which aims to develop historic global accords.
We did so within our business, for example voluntary and consistent climate risk disclosures for use by companies by mapping our USLP with the Global Goals see page 19.
In January in providing information to investors, lenders, insurers, and other 2016, we co-founded the Business & Sustainable Development stakeholders.
We have developed metrics to assess climate related Commission BSDC.
It brings together businesses and other risks and opportunities in line with our strategy and risk management stakeholders who share our belief that implementation of the Global process.
These are outlined on page 13.
Goals will help create a world where responsible business can continue to thrive.
While business is key to generating the economic CREATING MORE OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOMEN AND growth, job creation, and investment in innovation that will unlock the ENHANCING LIVELIHOODS US$3.3-4.5 trillion needed to deliver the Global Goals, BSDC research Women control a significant portion of consumer spending.
Building shows that successful delivery of the Global Goals will create market greater trust in our brands among our consumer base is critical opportunities of up to US$12 trillion a year.
The BSDC's report, Better and women make up a large number of our consumers.
Business, Better World, published in January 2017, aims to launch a global movement of CEOs and business leaders who place Creating opportunities for women is also a core element of our sustainability at the core of business strategy.
USLP, our partnership work, and our overall ambition to enhance the livelihoods of millions of people.
Empowering women has the potential Increasingly, we are finding new ways to contribute to the systemic to contribute substantially to many of the Global Goals because changes needed to address global challenges.
This is a responsibility including more women in the economic cycle has a positive impact on but also an opportunity, because resilient societies and economies are growth and the progress of families and communities.
ones in which businesses such as Unilever can flourish.
We aim to use our scale and influence to help bring about transformational change in Our goal is to empower 5 million women by 2020.
We aim to do this by four key areas where we believe we can make the biggest difference: respecting women's rights, promoting their safety, developing skills taking action on climate change and halting deforestation and advancing economic opportunities.
improving livelihoods and creating more opportunities for women Unilever has built partnerships to help achieve this with many improving health and well-being stakeholders, including the Clinton Guistra Enterprise Partnership championing sustainable agriculture and food security.
CGEP, BoP Innovation Center BoPInc, Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition GAIN and Population Services International PSI.
TAKING ACTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE AND HALTING DEFORESTATION We are working with UN Women to create a global violence-prevention World leaders assembled in Marrakech for COP22 in November 2016, framework to advance the implementation of human rights in our tea by which time enough states had ratified the Paris Agreement for it to value chain in Kenya and other places.
The programme aims to apply achieve 'entry-into-force', making it a binding agreement.
the global framework to Unilevers supply chain and extend into the wider tea industry and other commodities over time.
Unilever, through Unilever welcomed the Paris agreement and its legal status, having its Ponds brand, joined No Ceilings: The Full Participation Project, an worked with many others at COP21 and beforehand to help create the initiative of the Clinton Foundation, Vital Voices Global Partnership, conditions in which it could be achieved.
At COP22, we called for faster WEConnect International to announce a collective commitment Girls, transformation of our energy, food, transport and urban systems into Women and the Global Goals.
This is a coalition of over 30 partners ones consistent with the ambition of transforming our economy by the securing new commitments that aim to address significant gender middle of the century.
We believe businesses must contribute to gaps and advance the gender equality targets of the Sustainable climate action and that they will benefit by doing so.
Addressing our own greenhouse gas emissions is a key element of our We know it is important to reflect this commitment in our brands' USLP, and we have been working to reduce our impact for many years.
In 2016 we listened to consumers and looked at the way In 2016 we made progress towards our Carbon Positive 2030 ambition, we portray gender in our advertising and realised we needed to announced in 2015.
We know consumers rightly expect businesses to change.
We launched #unstereotype, a major global campaign to act responsibly on climate, and that reducing our energy usage and lead advertising away from stereotypical portrayals of gender.
switching to renewables can create cost savings and make our Brands including Axe, Dirt is Good and Sunsilk have led the way business more resilient.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 17 DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED PROMOTING HEALTH & WELL-BEING CHAMPIONING SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE AND We aim to help improve the health and well-being of more than IMPROVING FOOD SECURITY 1 billion people by 2020.
As part of this ambition, we have a strong Agriculture and the people who practise it are vital to the world, and focus on Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene WASH.
Together with our to our business.
The world needs to double food production by 2050 partners, we aim to change peoples hygiene behaviours by raising to help feed a population that will likely exceed 9 billion people.
awareness of the benefits of handwashing with soap, helping people What is more, of the 3.4 billion people living in rural areas in the world gain improved access to a toilet through promoting the benefits of today, up to 600 million may be undernourished.
We therefore see using clean toilets and making them accessible, and providing people agriculture as sitting at the heart of the climate and development with safe drinking water.
Our leading brands, including Lifebuoy and challenge, and view changes to the current systems as a vital way Domestos, provide us with a unique opportunity to make a difference in to help meet the aims of the Global Goals in eradicating hunger these areas.
and poverty, while making our supply of ingredients more resilient.
Cost-effective WASH solutions can lift people out of poverty and give We advocate a move away from purely production-led approaches, them greater opportunities for a successful future.
With partners such which run at the expense of people and planet, to a more integrated, as UNICEF we have helped around 6 million people gain improved holistic approach that can both improve livelihoods and enable access to a toilet through behaviour-change interventions and sustainable agriculture.
capacity-building initiatives results are reported by our partners in We are committed to sourcing all our agricultural raw materials accordance with their respective methodologies and include reach sustainably.
By working with others, we aim to ensure all the major from direct and indirect initiatives between 2012 and 2015. commodities on which we depend notably palm oil, soy, paper In 2016, we continued our efforts to raise awareness of the importance and board, and tea are produced sustainably for mainstream of handwashing with soap and access to improved sanitation, through consumer markets.
campaigns on Global Handwashing Day and World Toilet Day.
On In 2016 we refreshed our Palm Oil Policy and brought forward our World Toilet Day in 2016, we opened Suvidha, a sustainable hygiene target for purchasing 100% physically certified palm oil from 2020 to and sanitation community centre in one of Mumbais largest slums, 2019.
We also stopped buying GreenPalm certificates, which accounted which will address the hygiene needs of 1,500 people from low-income for 18% of our sustainably sourced agricultural raw materials in 2015. urban households who face severe challenges due to lack of However, our goal to source 100% of our palm oil sustainably from infrastructure and facilities.
The centre provides toilets that flush, physical, certified sources by 2019 is still on track with 36% of our handwashing facilities with soap, clean showers, safe drinking water palm volumes already physically certified in 2016 representing 9% of and laundry facilities at an affordable cost.
The Suvidha Centre uses all agricultural raw materials.
We aim to repurpose US$50 million circular economy principles to reduce water use.
Fresh water is first over five years that would have been spent on GreenPalm certificates used for brushing teeth, bathing, handwashing and laundry.
The waste and invest it in place-based partnerships.
This is to increase the water from these activities is then used for flushing toilets.
availability of physically certified sustainable palm oil and scale up Lifebuoy's new partnership with the World Association of Girl Guides direct sourcing from smallholder farmers.
and Girl Scouts will help over 4 million children gain a better This has created a temporary dip in our sustainably sourced understanding of the importance of handwashing with soap, while agricultural raw materials performance from 60% in 2015 to 51% in WASH4Work, a multi-stakeholder coalition, will mobilise greater 2016.
Had we continued to buy GreenPalm certificates at the same private sector engagement in the provision of adequate and level our overall sustainable sourcing performance in 2016 would have accessible WASH solutions in business operations, supply chains been 66%.
Instead, we have increased our purchasing of sustainable and surrounding communities.
physical agricultural raw materials from 39% in 2015 to 48% in 2016 A key enabler to achieve our Health & Wellbeing targets is more whilst maintaining the same proportion of certificates purchased for inclusive partnership models, such as 'Transform a partnership with soy and sugar 3% in 2015 and 2016.
Unilever, the UKs Department for International Development and We are also focusing on reducing food loss and waste, as a third of the Clinton Guistra Enterprise Partnership CGEP designed to improve the food the world currently produces is lost or wasted.
According to health and well-being of 100 million people in Africa and South Asia by WRAP, a waste and resource think tank, reducing consumer food increasing household access to water, sanitation and hygiene as well waste could save US$120-300 billion, and reduce greenhouse gas as energy through effective market-based solutions.
emissions by 1 billion tonnes of CO emissions per year by 2030.
We 2 are members of Champions 12.3, a coalition of business, government and civil society leaders, and signatories to the Consumer Goods Forum Resolution on Food Waste to halve food waste in direct operations by 2025.
We want the debate on food and agriculture to be high on the political and business agenda, and in 2016 we contributed to the Business and Sustainable Development Commission report Valuing the SDG Prize in Food and Agriculture, which found that achieving food security could create 80 million jobs and unlock 14 major business opportunities worth US$2.3 trillion annually by 2030.
To help unlock this potential, we supported the World Business Council for Sustainable Development WBCSD and EAT Foundation partnership, launched at the EAT Forum in June 2016, which seeks to better link production through consumption.
18 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 THE GLOBAL GOALS FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Through our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, Sustainable Living brands and our transformational change agenda we contribute to the Global Goals.
GLOBAL GOALS RELATED USLP PILLARS Goal 1: No poverty Fairness in the workplace Inclusive business Opportunities for women Goal 2: Zero hunger Improving nutrition Inclusive business Opportunities for women Sustainable sourcing Goal 3: Good health and well-being Fairness in the workplace Health & hygiene Improving nutrition Goal 4: Quality education Inclusive business Opportunities for women Sustainable sourcing Goal 5: Gender equality Opportunities for women Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation Health & hygiene Water use Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy Greenhouse gases Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth All USLP pillars Goal 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure Greenhouse gases Inclusive business Opportunities for women Waste & packaging Water use Goal 10: Reduce inequality Fairness in the workplace Opportunities for women Inclusive business Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities Health & hygiene Waste & packaging Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production Greenhouse gases Waste & packaging Water use Goal 13: Climate action Greenhouse gases Sustainable sourcing Water use Goal 14: Life below water Waste & packaging Goal 15: Life on land Sustainable sourcing Goal 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions Fairness in the workplace Goal 17: Partnerships for the goals All USLP pillars Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 19
