STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR VALUES PROMOTE AN INCLUSIVEWORKING ENVIRONMENT Our people strategy aims to create astimulating and rewarding place towork, so that we can attract, motivate and retain our highly skilledand talented workforce.
Joanne Hombal Director of Human Resources Our values Enthusiasm Participation Trust and respect Achievement Innovation We remain committed to ensuring that our business activities Our employment practices areconducted in a responsible manner for the benefit of our Vectura encourages diversity throughout all levels of the organisation.
In achieving this objective, we focus our activities in We believe that individual success depends on ability, behaviour, four key areas which we believe are most relevant to our business: performance and evidenced potential and we remain committed to our people, our local communities, our environmental footprint and offering career opportunities without discrimination.
We believe that having empowered people, who to equal opportunities, diversity and non-discrimination is enshrined understand their responsibilities, who display sound judgement in our working practices and policies as set out in our Code of Conduct.
andwho act in an ethical way, is key to the ongoing success and We operate on the basis of mutual respect and we do not tolerate development of Vectura.
discrimination or harassment on any basis.
Our Code of Conduct covers all permanent and temporary employees, including Executive Our people and Non-Executive Directors, job applicants, agency staff, associates, Our values consultants and contractors.
Our values clearly articulate our expectations and our aspirations.
We give full and fair consideration to every job application we receive.
We encourage and reinforce these values through our performance Vectura has not set formal diversity quotas or targets and all management process and the Peoples Champion award.
appointments, both internal and external, are ultimately made The Peoples Champion is an annual award which allows our onthe basis of merit.
Where possible, we support part-time and employees to recognise and reward those individuals who have flexible working, with around 17% of our employees benefiting acted as a behavioural role model, demonstrating our values from some kind of flexible working practice.
inaway that has inspired and engaged their colleagues.
James Ward-Lilley is the Board member responsible for overseeing We believe that our values promote an inclusive working environment human resources and non-discrimination issues.
whereby individuals are rewarded for their individual and collective contributions to the business.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 47 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Our people continued Overall gender breakdown as at 31 March 2016 Our employee communications We value the opinions and experience of our people.
Male 141 161 In an industry based on innovation and research and development, Female our employees are our biggest asset and it is therefore critical that we forge strong connections through timely and meaningful communication.
Effective and engaging communication is at the heart of our internal communication strategy.
151 156 We have established staff and managers forums.
These forums 2015 2016 provide a mechanism by which all employees can raise issues that matter to them for discussion, to enable employee feedback and to facilitate the communication and dissemination of key information Vecturas Director gender split as at 31 March 2016 throughout the organisation.
Male 1 1 We hold quarterly business updates with all employees, hosted Female bymembers of the Executive Leadership Team.
We share strategy, programme, people and business performance updates through the use of a balanced score card, as well as publicly recognising significant team or individual success, and facilitate two-way 7 7 dialogue through Q&A.
2015 2016 Our business leaders are subsequently equipped with briefing packs to enable them to reinforce and personalise key messages byfollowing the quarterly employee updates with team cascade Vectura senior managers as at 31 March 2016 sessions.
This facilitates additional engagement and ensures that allemployees understand how the work they do contributes to Male 5 ouroverall progress.
8 Female We have launched our first internal communication survey in 21 23 orderto examine the effectiveness of existing internal communication channels and to identify opportunities for improvement.
Our overall results indicated that: the majority of respondents are satisfied with 2015 2016 : Length of service 72% feel adequately informed: and 90% of respondents report that our existing 05 years 49 channelsareuseful.
510 years 24 Further analysis of the feedback will be used to drive constructive 1015 years 21 changes to include a new, interactive Company newsletter which will be launched in the coming year.
1520 years 4 We have also launched our annual employee engagement survey.
2030 years 2 85% of employees responded, and we received feedback indicating we are ahead of the comparator benchmarks including the top 10% of participating companies in the following areas: senior leaders clearly communicate our long-term goals andstrategy: high levels of co-operation between peers: and employees are prepared to put in extra effort to get the jobdone.
We will use the feedback to determine key priority areas for improvement going forward and will regularly communicate ourprogress as we deliver our people strategy.
We monitor our employee turnover on a monthly basis to identify any possible employee relations or motivational issues and to assist in our recruitment and resource planning.
We are pleased to report that a significant percentage of our employees have five or more years continual service.
48 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT Developing and rewarding our people Our local communities Attracting and retaining skilled people with values aligned to our We consider that one of the most significant impacts we can have company ethos is critical for our business and we aim to develop within our local communities is to continue to provide high quality and maintain a motivated and professional workforce.
As such, employment opportunities and to develop therapies to help patients werecognise the importance of investing in our people, ensuring with airways-related diseases.
that they are equipped to deliver in their current and future roles In addition, we support the STEM Science, Technology, Engineering within the business.
In addition to investment in general training and Mathematics initiative, which is a major government programme and development, Vectura offers all employees the opportunity whereby our employees actively help local schoolchildren to gain toapply for scholarship funding.
The Vocational Qualification the understanding, capabilities and skills to flourish in a scientific Awardprovides substantial financial assistance to those who environment such as ours.
wishto pursue further self-development, largely in their own time.
Any course that would significantly enhance an employees skills We are proud to have a highly creative and active Social Committee whilst benefiting Vectura is considered.
which initiates a calendar of social and charitable events each year.
With a dedicated budget, this team is empowered to organise In order to provide opportunities for shared learning, we provide engaging and rewarding activities to raise money for local charities, interactive educational seminars every two months which are hosted as well as facilitating our support of nationwide charity campaigns by internal subject matter experts and external speakers.
We also such as Comic Relief.
Wherever possible, Company facilities are facilitate cross-company information sharing, teamwork and learning made available for these events.
via our annual Vision event.
This event enables individuals and teams to promote their work to their colleagues using innovative Our environmental footprint and creative visual imagery, with an element of constructive Due to the nature of its activities, Vectura considers that it has a low competitiveness engendered by a panel of judges who select environmental impact.
However, we remain committed to minimising andreward the strongest entries.
the impact of our activities on the environment and actively seek to Remuneration plays an important role in retaining and motivating make energy savings in a way that is beneficial for the environment our people.
We seek to provide well constructed and fair reward and cost effective for the business.
Andrew Oakley is the Board member systems designed to incentivise superior performance and align to whom responsibility for environmental issues has been delegated.
theinterests of our employees with those of our shareholders.
Vectura has a Green Action Team which meets regularly and has Ourremuneration packages are designed to be both fair and responsibility to pursue initiatives for environmental sustainability competitive and all remuneration packages include an element of and carbon reduction.
variable remuneration in the form of an annual bonus.
The annual bonus allows us to reward employees for achieving and exceeding Green Action Team challenging corporate and individual objectives.
In addition to our Our Green Action Team is responsible for raising environmental remuneration packages, which include a pension entitlement, awareness, driving good environmental behaviours and co-ordinating permanent health insurance and life assurance and private medical environmental initiatives across the organisation.
The team publishes care, all employees are given the opportunity to participate in our articles on environmental matters on our staff intranet and it manages all-employee share plans.
For more details of our all-employee internal guidance for the use of heating and air conditioning.
Each year, share plans, please refer to the Remuneration report.
the team organises an annual Green Week to promote ongoing awareness of environmental matters amongst staff.
Our commitment to health and safety Our environmental policies Vectura considers health and safety to be a priority in its workplaces.
Our Company environmental policy is modelled on ISO 14001 We have an established Health and Safety Committee that reviews standards, and all staff are required to read and comply with health and safety standards within the organisation.
The Committee Vecturas green working policy.
Induction procedures for new continually monitors and reviews health and safety practices to staffinclude sufficient information to ensure a high level ensure that health and safety management procedures are robust ofcompliance with our environmental standards.
and in line with industry best practice.
Annual updates are provided to the Board for review and additional update reports are provided Our environmental initiatives as required.
Trevor Phillips is the Board member to whom responsibility Vectura has adopted and maintains a number of specific for health and safety issues has been delegated.
Specialist ongoing training is provided to those individuals who Energy efficiency areresponsible for health and safety across the organisation.
52 solar panels are installed at our Chippenham site which General health and safety training is delivered to all staff via havegenerated over 38,000kWh of electricity since installation in-house training sessions provided by our Health and Safety inNovember 2012.
Manager and by e-learning courses.
It is our policy that when an existing light unit requires The Group has an excellent safety record and there have been no replacement it is replaced with an LED light.
The LED lights major incidents or accidents reported to the Health and Safety Committee installed are up to four times more energy efficient than the during the year 2014 15: none.
traditional light units that they replace.
The majority of the lighting at our Chippenham site isnow LED.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 49 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Our environmental footprint continued Emissions data is reported using a financial control approach Energy efficiency continued todefine our reporting boundary, which meets the requirements Passive infrared light sensors are installed in many general work ofthe Regulations in respect of those emissions for which we are areas.
This ensures that lighting is not left on in work areas that responsible.
The information is presented for a twelve-month arenot currently in use.
Emissions have been measured for all sites.
We continue our commitment to promoting green IT.
The amounts shown below for total FY 2015 16 Scope 1 and Scope 2 Wherepossible, we use virtual PCs that use c. 20% of the emissions are those required to be reported under the Regulations.
electricity of a standard desktop PC and we employ virtual servers.
1 Greenhouse gas emission by source 2015 16 2014 15 2013 14 Waste management Scope 1 431 215 142 Initiatives to effectively manage and reduce waste have been Scope 2 1,426 1,506 1,272 implemented throughout the organisation: Total emissions Scope 1 and 2 1,857 1,721 1,414 We recycle all paper and cardboard waste, aluminium cans, Emissions reported tonnes of CO 2 plastics, printer toners cartridges and redundant mobile 2 per sq ft 0.03 0.02 0.02 telephone handsets.
We operate a managed print solution to help control paper usage.
1 GHG emissions r eported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents.
Emissionsfactors were sourced from the UK Defra database.
We use registered waste disposal contractors and comply with 2 Gas and electricity usage inf ormation has been obtained from purchase invoices and verified all relevant waste legislation.
by reference to meter readings.
Vehicle fuel usage isbased upon recorded mileage.
The Carbon Disclosure Project Our ethical and social policies Vectura voluntarily reports its environmental performance under Vecturas principal activities are undertaken within the pharmaceutical the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
CDP plays an important role in industry, which is subject to a highly regulated ethical framework communicating information about greenhouse gas emissions and with which the Group complies.
In addition, Vectura seeks to conduct related activities reported by the UKs largest companies, enabling its activities generally in accordance withgood business ethics.
investors and the public to take informed action against climate We have adopted a clear anti-bribery policy, which has been change.
There have been no contentious issues or other matters communicated to all employees so they can recognise and having economic, legal, reputational or environmental consequences avoidthe use of bribery and report any suspicion for rigorous that have arisen this year.
Political donations are prohibited and advance Greenhouse gas emissions approval from management is required before management Vectura reports greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with andstaff may accept or solicit a gift of any kind.
theCompanies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report We do not believe that human rights issues present a significant Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
issue for Vectura, but we are committed to protecting the human Greenhouse gas assessment parameters rights of our employees and the people who come into contact Baseline year FY13 14 with our business.
1 2 Intensity ratio GHG by gross building area This Strategic report has been approved by the Board and is signed by order of the Board: 1 In order to express total annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable factor associated with Vecturas activities, gross building area has been used as an intensity ratio.
2 Due to the nature of Vecturas business, a large amount of energy is consumed in maintaining air quality in the laboratories and therefore choosing gross building area asanintensity ratio gives the fairest reflection of performance.
James Ward-Lilley Chief Executive Officer 25 May 2016 50 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16
