CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ENCOURAGING AND REINFORCING OUR VALUES We remain committed to ensuring that our business activities are conducted in aresponsible manner for the benefit of our patients, our people and our local communities, our partners, and our investors.
Recognising that our stakeholder groups have different needs, we strive to deliver their desired experience and thisshared understanding underpins the values and culture of our Company.
Patients People Partners Investors Need a dynamic and rewarding Need medication they can Need Vectura to be a partner Need distinctive long-term depend on to live a more work context, and to work with in pursuit of scientific and growth, and for Vectura to intelligent and courageous normal life, and access to new operational excellence, enabling create sustained value and established drugs colleagues who share, challenge the best outcomes for and strengthen their expertise programmes and patients To conduct ourselves in a way that benefits our stakeholders, we Our people focus on four key areas that we believe are most relevant: our 2016 has been a significant year for Vectura not least as a result of patients, our people and our local communities, our environmental the merger with Skyepharma.
This unity has resulted in a strengthened footprint and our governance.
workforce, based across six sites and four countries with invaluable diversity of skills, knowledge and experience.
Our talent pipeline Our patients has been significantly enhanced and we have been delighted with Promoting access the shared passion, drive and unwavering focus on our purpose The Group currently licenses its products, technologies and to transform the lives of airways disease patients.
The Group believes it can play Our culture animportant role in improving access to healthcare through the Following the merger we have embarked on a journey to create development of innovative technologies and solutions that address adefined culture for the combined business that will enable us to major areas of unmet medical need, improve patient compliance continue to meet the needs of our stakeholders and achieve our and outcomes and reduce overall costs of healthcare.
This culture leverages the strengths of our combined utilises its development and regulatory expertise to support its Company by amplifying our strongest qualities and uniting us with partners in bringing the benefits of its products to as many markets a common language.
Our culture is comprised of our purpose, our as possible, including developing economies.
values, our mindset and our behaviours.
Patient safety We believe that having empowered and engaged people is Although our business does not include direct marketing and sales fundamental to success, and therefore we have adopted a highly to patients, patient safety is our number one priority in the development, inclusive approach to defining our culture, with high levels of testing, manufacturing and ultimate use of our products.
All medicines participation and feedback from our employees achieved through have potential risks as well as benefits.
Our robust policies and surveys, workshops and an online digital discussion forum.
The governance framework are designed to help us and our partners digital forum alone generated 1,089 comments and 85,000 hits detect and act on any side effects that may be associated with our over a 32-hour period.
We have also collated feedback from a medicines.
We always put patient safety first in the design and number of our partners, to ensure that we take an outside in conduct of our clinical trials.
perspective to how we define our culture.
44 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT The output of this activity will be collated and launched in 2017 but Women constituted 50.3% 2015 16: 51.6% of the Groups employees, it is clear from the insight already gathered that we have many core including 33.9% 2015 16: 25.8% of the management who report strengths, shared ambitions and shared values upon which to build.
to the Chief Executive Officer.
After the merger we have continued to encourage and reinforce Our employee communications our existing values through our formal policies and procedures, our Effective and engaging communication remains at the heart of our performance management process and the Peoples Champion internal communication strategy, and is increasingly important during award.
The Peoples Champion is an annual award which allows a period of significant change for our business.
In an industry based our employees to recognise and reward those individuals who have on innovation and research and development, our employees are acted as a behavioural role model, demonstrating our values in a our biggest asset and it is therefore critical that we forge strong way that has inspired and engaged their colleagues.
connections through timely and meaningful communication: we aim to achieve this through: Our employment practices our Manager Forum, which enables all people managers to meet Vectura encourages diversity, in its widest sense, throughout all on a monthly basis to discuss topical items, share learnings, levels of the organisation and recognises the positive impact of communicate updates, provide feedback on corporate initiatives diversity towards our overall success.
We believe that individual and benefit from upskilling: effectiveness depends on ability, behaviour, performance and evidenced potential and we remain committed to offering career a new Employee Representative Forum of elected representatives opportunities without discrimination.
Our commitment to equal which has been established so that we can work in close opportunities, diversity and non-discrimination is enshrined in our collaboration with our employees on any matters affecting our working practices and policies as set out in our Code of Conduct.
people throughout the integration process, as well as providing Group policies, revisions to policies and other items of interest are amechanism by which employees can raise issues that matter communicated via email and through the Group intranet, with tothem for discussion, to enable employee feedback and to policies provided in the principal languages spoken by employees facilitate the communication and dissemination of key of the Group.
We operate on the basis of mutual respect and we do information throughout the organisation: not tolerate discrimination or harassment on any basis.
Our Code of holding quarterly business updates with all employees, hosted Conduct covers all permanent and temporary employees, including bymembers of the Executive Leadership Team.
Post the merger, Executive and Non-Executive Directors, job applicants, agency staff, these quarterly updates have been supplemented with monthly associates, consultants and contractors.
all-staff briefings as we recognise that bringing two companies together can create uncertainty: we use these sessions to share We give full and fair consideration to every job application we strategy, programme, people and business performance updates receive.
Vectura has not set formal diversity quotas or targets and through the use of a balanced score card, as well as publicly all appointments, both internal and external, are ultimately made recognising significant team or individual success, and facilitating on the basis of merit.
Where possible, we support part-time and two-way dialogue through Q&A: flexible working, with around 20.85% of our employees benefiting from some kind of flexible working practice.
James Ward-Lilley, ourChief Executive Officer, is the Board member responsible for overseeing human resources and non-discrimination issues.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 45 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Overall gender breakdown of all employees Length of service at 31 December 2016 05 years 44% Male 228 510 years 14% Female 1015 years 8% 1520 years 5% 225 2030 years 11% 30 years 18% Senior managers Directors and above at 31 December 2016 Male 37 Female 19 Developing and rewarding our people Our people continued Our employee communications continued Attracting and retaining skilled people with values aligned to our equipping our business leaders with briefing packs post the ethos is critical for our business and we aim to develop and maintain Quarterly Business Updates to facilitate ongoing engagement via a motivated and professional workforce.
As such, we recognise the team cascade sessions, to ensure that all employees understand importance of investing in our people, ensuring that they are how their work contributes to the overall progress of Vectura: equipped to deliver in their current and future roles within the business.
In addition to investment in general training and development, Vectura providing quarterly newsletters via an interactive, online channel offers all employees the opportunity to apply for scholarship funding.
whereby all sites can provide project updates, videos and charitable The Vocational Qualification Award provides substantial financial event stories to emphasise our shared passion for patients, the assistance to those who wish to pursue further self-development, charities and local communities we support and to reinforce our largelyin their own time.
Any course that would significantly enhance team spirit: anemployees skills whilst benefiting Vectura is considered.
conducting regular Pulse surveys every six weeks post the merger to check the effectiveness of our internal communications and In order to provide opportunities for shared learning, we provide the extent to which our employees feel engaged and informed.
interactive educational seminars every two months which are The feedback from these surveys is used to identify areas for hosted by internal subject matter experts and external speakers.
improvement, and results are shared openly: and We also facilitate cross-company information sharing, teamwork and learning via our annual Vision event.
This event enables conducting an annual employee engagement survey.
The 2016 individuals and teams to promote their work to their colleagues annual survey was conducted in January 2016: 86% of employees using innovative and creative visual imagery, with an element responded and we received feedback indicating weare ahead ofconstructive competitiveness engendered by a panel of judges ofthe comparator benchmarks including the top10% of who select and reward the strongest entries.
In 2016, this event participating companies in the following areas: was subsumed within Day one of our newly merged Company where senior leaders clearly communicate our long-term goals we brought employees together and facilitated cross-company andstrategy: networking and feedback at the very start of our integration journey.
In addition, more patient-focused learning, innovation and collaboration high levels of co-operation between peers: and were facilitated during Q1 2017 when we hosted our formal employees are prepared to put in extra effort to get the integration event over two days in London.
Remuneration plays an important role in retaining and motivating We use the feedback obtained from the processes and activities outlined our people.
We seek to provide well constructed and fair reward above to determine key priority areas for improvement going forward systems designed to incentivise superior performance and align and we regularly communicate our progress.
Wemonitor our employee theinterests of our employees with those of our shareholders.
turnover on a monthly basis to identify any possible employee relations Following the merger, we are reviewing our Reward Strategy and or motivational issues and to assist in our recruitment and resource intend to harmonise our terms and conditions to the fullest extent planning.
We are pleased to report that a significantnumber of our possible within local legislative parameters.
Harmonisation will take employees have five or more years continuous service.
place in 2017 and will be aligned to our newly defined values and behaviours to ensure that our reward practices will both reinforce During 2017, we will continue to review employee communication and embed our target culture.
Current remuneration packages channels to identify opportunities for continuous improvement.
46 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT contain a variable element based on legacy terms of the two General health and safety training is delivered to all staff via businesses, but include an element of variable remuneration in the in-house training sessions provided by our Health and Safety form of an annual bonus for many of our employees.
Manager and by e-learning courses.
The annual bonus allows us to reward employees for achieving and The Group has an excellent safety record and there have been no major incidents or accidents to report to the Health and Safety exceeding challenging corporate and individual objectives.
In addition to our remuneration packages, which include a pension entitlement, Executive in the United Kingdom or to the equivalent bodies in Germany, Switzerland or France during the period 2015 16: none.
permanent health insurance and life assurance and private medical care, all UK employees are given the opportunity to participate in our Our local communities all-employee share plans.
The Group intends to offer similar plans We consider that one of the most significant impacts we can have for our overseas employees.
For more details of our all-employee within our local communities is to continue to provide high-quality share plans, please refer to the Remuneration report.
employment opportunities and to develop therapies to help Talent management is another key component in the attraction and patients with airways-related diseases.
retention of motivated and highly skilled employees.
On an annual basis, the Executive Leadership Team reviews the succession plan, identifying the high potential employees who are the future leaders of our business and ensures appropriate retention, support and personal development planning is in place.
We also use this process to identify our key professionals, those employees who have highly specialist skills and or knowledge to ensure appropriate knowledge In addition, we support the STEM Science, Technology, Engineering transfer and other risk mitigation plans are in place.
This process andMathematics initiative, which is a major UK government programme will be rolled out across the combined organisation in 2017. whereby nine employees actively help local school children to gain the understanding, capabilities and skills toflourish in a scientific Health and safety environment such as ours.
Our commitment to health and safety Vectura considers health and safety to be a priority in its workplaces.
We are proud to have a highly creative and active Social Committee We have an established Health and Safety Committee that reviews which initiates a calendar of social and charitable events each year.
health and safety standards within the organisation.
The Committee With a dedicated budget, this team is empowered to organise continually monitors and reviews health and safety practices to ensure engaging and rewarding activities to raise money for local charities, that health and safety management procedures are robust and in as well asfacilitating our support of nationwide charity campaigns line with industry best practice.
Annual updates are provided to the such asComic Relief, the BBC Children in Need appeal and Macmillan Board for review and additional update reports are provided as aswell as local charities nominated by our employees.
Trevor Phillips is the Board member to whom responsibility possible, Group facilities are made available for these events.
for health and safety issues has been delegated.
Forthe second year running, 34 employees participated in the  charity bike ride, raising almost Specialist ongoing training is provided to those individuals who are 14,000for Asthma UK, as well as forging strong relationships responsible for health and safety across the organisation.
builton mutual trust and support, having fun and sharing a greatachievement.
 bike ride for Asthma UK.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 47 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Our environmental footprint Vectura has a Green Action Team which meets regularly and has The Group is committed to protecting the environment in all areas responsibility to pursue initiatives for environmental sustainability of our operations, including undertaking initiatives to effectively and carbon reduction.
manage and reduce waste throughout the organisation.
We are Green Action Team currently in the process of drafting a post-merger environmental Our Green Action Team is responsible for raising environmental policy applicable to the enlarged Group.
awareness, driving good environmental behaviours and co-ordinating We aim to foster a positive attitude towards the environment environmental initiatives across the organisation.
The team publishes among employees and to raise employee awareness of responsible articles on environmental matters on our staff intranet and it manages environmental practices at all sites operated by the Group.
The Group internal guidance for the use of heating and air conditioning.
endeavours to ensure compliance with all relevant legislation and Our environmental initiatives regulatory requirements and, where practical and economically viable, Vectura has adopted and maintains a number of specific to exceed such requirements.
Trevor Phillips, Chief Operations environmental initiatives.
Officer, has responsibility for reporting on relevant environmental matters to the Board.
There have been no reportable incidents in Energy efficiency 2016 at any of the Groups sites.
52 solar panels are installed at our Chippenham site which have generated over 47,000kWh of electricity since installation in Due to the nature of its activities, Vectura considers that it has November 2012. alow environmental impact.
However, we remain committed to It is our policy that when an existing light unit requires minimising the impact of our activities on the environment and replacement it is replaced with an LED light.
The LED lights actively seek to make energy savings in a way that is beneficial installed are up to four times more energy efficient than the forthe environment and cost effective for the business.
traditional light units that they replace.
The majority of the lighting at our Chippenham site is now LED.
Passive infrared light sensors are installed in many general work areas.
This ensures that lighting is not left on in work areas that are not currently in use.
Control The data reported includes the Lyon facility from 1 July 2016, when the ownership of the facility transferred back to the Group, following the expiry of the Aenova France SAS business lease on 30 June 2016.
The data excludes one building located in Muttenz, Switzerland, which has been leased to Aenova.
Aenova controls production atthat building and, therefore, has been deemed responsible for allemissions reporting.
Emissions data for our office in London isconsidered to be negligible for these purposes.
Greenhouse gas emissions Vectura reports greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
Emissions data is reported using a financial control approach to define our reporting boundary, which meets the requirements of theRegulations in respect of those emissions for which we are responsible.
The information is presented for a twelve-month period.
Emissions have been measured for all sites.
The amounts shown below for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are those required to be reported under the Regulations.
9 months ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 March 31 March 1 Greenhouse gas emission by source 2016 2016 2015 Scope 1 465 431 215 Scope 2 1,163 1,426 1,506 Total emissions Scope 1 and 2 1,628 1,857 1,721 2 Emissions reported tonnes of CO per sq ft 0.01 0.03 0.02 2 1 GHG emissions reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents.
Emissions factors were sourced from the UK Defra database.
2 Gas and electricity usage information has been obtained from purchase invoices and verified by reference to meter readings.
Vehicle fuel usage is based upon recorded mileage.
48 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Our ethical and social policies and improvement programmes.
We have a highly regulated vendor Vecturas principal activities are undertaken within the pharmaceutical selection process, which includes evaluating prospective suppliers industry, which is subject to a highly regulated ethical framework technical capability and a full audit of their quality systems to with which the Group complies.
In addition, Vectura seeks to conduct ensure compliance with appropriate quality and safety standards.
its activities generally in accordance with good business ethics.
Manufacturing compliance We have adopted a clear anti-bribery policy, which has been Vectura manufacturing and laboratory facilities are subject to regular communicated to all employees so they can recognise and inspection by relevant regulatory authorities.
These inspections avoidthe use of bribery and report any suspicion for rigorous have not revealed any major instances of non-compliance at any investigation.
Political donations are prohibited and advance ofour sites.
approval from management is required before management Clinical trials andstaff may accept or solicit a gift of any kind.
Vectura has an established set of Standard Operating Procedures SOPs We do not believe that human rights issues present a significant and Policies which govern the conduct of the clinical trials which it issue for Vectura, but we are committed to protecting the human sponsors.
These SOPs and Policies ensure that Vectura-sponsored rights of our employees and the people who come into contact clinical trials are compliant with internationally recognised and with our business.
adopted standards and with national and international legislation inrelevant territories.
Vecturas clinical trials are the subject of Sales and marketing ethics routine and ongoing inspection by its own Quality Assurance The Group does not currently market pharmaceutical products directly department to ensure compliance with SOPs and Policies.
We do to patients: however, we are committed to employing ethical not conduct animal testing in house and have no plans to do so.
We follow the Code of Practice of Weoutsource toxicology studies which are required by law before theAssociation of the British Pharmaceutical Industry ABPI which human clinical trials of novel therapeutics can be conducted.
There governs the promotion of medicines to health professionals.
are a limited number of companies with the expertise to conduct Working with suppliers regulatory-standard, inhalation toxicology studies, which are our Our ethical standards are integral to our procurement and partnering area of focus.
activities and we continuously monitor compliance through assessments The Strategic report has been approved by the Board and is signed by order of the Board: Andrew Derodra Chief Financial Officer 20 March 2017 Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN It is very important that the corporate culture of the enlarged Group reflects our purpose to transform the lives of airways disease patients.
Bruno Angelici Chairman Dear shareholder subsequently, Chairman of Skyepharma.
Susan Foden has been a As mentioned in my letter to shareholders in last years report, Non-Executive Director of Vectura since January 2007. yourBoard has collective responsibility for the long-term success We would like to assure shareholders that it is the belief of the other ofthe Company.
Following our successful merger with Skyepharma, Board members that both Frank and Sue are fully independent your Board has been working to ensure that we have effective, inthought and action in terms of their participation in Board and entrepreneurial and prudent management for the long-term Committee meetings, and they have the full support of the other success of the business and that our governance for the enlarged Board members in the activities they undertake.
In support of this Group facilitates that.
view, Independent Audit Limited which was appointed last year by As a Board, we have been mindful of the focus on corporate culture.
the Company to undertake an independent Board and Committee We have considered the potential benefits of a strong culture and evaluation has commented: possible risks with having an inappropriate culture.
It is very important In JanuaryFebruary 2017, we conducted a Board effectiveness that the corporate culture of the enlarged Group reflects our purpose review at Vectura Group plc which involved interviewing each to transform the lives of airways disease patients.
We have worked Board member individually and observing meetings of the to ensure that the Board and senior management adopts an appropriate Board and its three Committees.
We found no reason to culture for the business and one that will take the enlarged unified question the objectivity and independence of mind of Frank Group to the next stage in its development.
This will be achieved Condella or Susan Foden.
We did see reason to believe that bythe development of Vecturas strategy by the Board, its they make a valuable contribution to the Board particularly implementation by management which reflects the values of the at this stage following the merger.
Company, and by management being rewarded on the basis of achieving its objectives aligned to the strategy.
Good governance Independent Audit Limited underpins these to facilitate its success.
Further details of our The merger and merger terms received the overwhelming support Executives remuneration is provided in the Directors Remuneration and approval of shareholders of both companies.
It was explained Report and the following report explains more about how Vecturas in the merger documentation that the make-up of the enlarged corporate governance is embedded in the Company.
Group Board was agreed on the basis that its composition would UK Corporate Governance Code benefit the enlarged Group by allowing it to access the skills and In relation to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, experience of both Vectura and Skyepharma to deliver best practice the Board considers that it has complied in full with the applicable and operational excellence.
We strongly believe this is of vital version 2014.
I would like to provide some further information importance to the enlarged Group as it emerges from and onareas that the Board discussed as part of its determination.
continues to mature in a post-merger environment.
Board composition Under the terms of the merger, John Brown and Andrew Oakley Certain shareholders have queried the independence both pre-existing Vectura Directors stood down from the Board ofMrFrankCondella Vice Chairman and Dr Susan Foden onor shortly after completion of the merger.
In addition, we  Committee and SID, based on their undertook to carry out an appropriately managed process for the respective lengths of service onthe Boards of Skyepharma and Vectura.
departure of one additional pre-existing Vectura Board member FrankCondella has been aNon-Executive Director since the merger within 18 months of completion of the merger.
This was in order with Skyepharma inJune2016 and prior to that he was CEO and, toreduce the size of the enlarged Group Board to a total of eight.
50 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE On 6 March 2017, we announced that Trevor Phillips, Vecturas at least one appointment by the end of 2017 and the other during ChiefOperations Officer and President of US operations would step 2018.
Subject to the size of the Board remaining the same, this down from the Board at the AGM on 25 May 2017 and leave the should achieve the objectives of the Hampton-Alexander Review.
Were we to be requested by shareholders However, as noted below we are reviewing the skill-sets that the to accommodate the retirement of one or possibly two additional Board would benefit from going forward and it is possible we will directors on top of this, it would change the composition of the want to marginally increase the size of the Board at some point over Board quite radically at a relatively early stage in the life of the the next two years to accommodate additional individuals with the enlarged Group.
We do not consider this to be in the best interests relevant skill-sets tobenefit the enlarged Group.
of the Company and its stakeholders.
In terms of the next level of management, our Executive Leadership It is our view that, in order to ensure that the enlarged Group Team excluding Executive Directors totalled six, of which there were benefits fully from the combined Board in the way envisaged when two female members and therefore we met the Hampton-Alexander the merger was approved and to avoid having to try to replace up objective.
At the business leadership level, the total number was 40, to threeBoard positions in a short time frame, it is imperative that of which 13were female.
As a Board, our strategy will be to we maintain as much of the knowledge, experience and insight of endeavour to maintain and improve these levels so that the the current Board members as possible in the short to medium objectives of the Hampton-Alexander Review are met and term.
We hope that you agree with our view of Board continuity maintained by 2019. being akey requirement in this process.
Internal control and external audit tender In Susan Fodens case, she undertakes a vitally important role as SID In relation to the appropriateness of the Companys systems and also brings a unique skill-set to our Board with the following ofinternal control, the Board as part of its deliberations again attributes including: considerable knowledge of the City and workings considered whether there should be a separate internal audit of a PLC: extensive scientific knowledge and understanding of our function.
The Board considered that, at this time, the financial business with a degree in biochemistry as well as significant controls and management oversight provided is appropriate for experience in business development and intellectual property: and acompany of Vecturas size and complexity.
This is will be vast experience of venture capital and the UK biotech environment.
reviewed again in due course.
Although Susan Foden has served for just over nine years, she has As part of these reviews, the Audit Committee recommended that it not served concurrently with any Executive Director for more than was appropriate to tender the provision of the external audit as the sixyears.
Moreover, Susan Foden is currently the only woman on incumbent had been in post for ten years.
This process is ongoing the Board and to request her to stand down would detract from at the time of writing: however, it is intended that a recommendation theBoards ongoing efforts on diversity.
be provided to shareholders for consideration at the 2017 AGM.
Frank Condella has considerable high level experience in the In addition to the integration, the Board also spent time considering respiratory sector in both Europe and the US, spanning over the combined Group strategy going forwards, its development pipeline, 30years in the pharmaceutical industry.
He brings valuable and projects, markets and technological developments.
In terms of substantial knowledge and expertise including broad knowledge governance, it also reviewed the matters reserved to the Board, and experience of the US and European pharmaceutical respiratory thenew Market Abuse Regulation and anti-slavery requirements sector having previously been CEO of Juniper Pharmaceuticals, Inc inorder to ensure that the Company is compliant and also that and previously President of European Operations at IVAX.
Whilst we are conscious of the governance issues raised, we believe Statement of compliance with the Code it would be counter-productive to achieving the best for the Company The following sections contain an explanation of how good governance in terms of fully integrating and implementing the strategy of the has been embedded into the larger Vectura Group including the enlarged Group to suggest that Frank Condella should have to step Groups reporting disclosures on corporate governance required down from the Board at this stage.
bythe Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate Governance Code available on the FRC website, www.
uk, including how the Respecting the wishes of shareholders and the issue of best practice, main principles and supporting principles have been applied, and we can confirm that Frank Condella will, however, stand down from the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7, including the the Audit Committee from the forthcoming 2017 AGM.
It would also required statement of compliance.
be our intention to appoint Dr Thomas Werner to the Nomination Committee to satisfy the requirement for a majority of independent I am pleased to confirm that the Board considers that it has NEDs on this Committee.
beenincompliance with the Code throughout the period ended 31December 2016.
It further considers that the Annual Report, Board diversity taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Board diversity is of great importance to Vectura.
The Hamptonthe information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Alexander Review is something that I, as Chairman, and we, as a position and performance, business model and strategy.
Board, at Vectura have studied in detail, supporting its conclusions and outcomes.
On the basis of retaining the services of Susan Foden and Bruno Angelici FrankCondella on the Board for the time being, the Nomination Chairman Committee will beworking towards identifying and appointing 20 March 2017 twofemale Board members as either replacements for these positions and or as additional Board members.
The aim is to make Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 51
