Vesuvius plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Sustainability We are committed to contributing to the protection of the environment and to the positive integration of our site activities into local communities.
We continue to develop and promote solutions that allow our customers to reduce their waste, energy consumption and CO emissions.
2 Vesuvius and its Processes Environmental Monitoring The Board recognises that good environmental All our factory emissions are proactively managed management is aligned with our focus on in accordance with local regulations.
Regular cost optimisation and operational excellence.
analysis enables us to take appropriate action to The majority of our manufacturing processes reduce our emissions and operate more ef ciently.
are not energy intensive and do not produce large The Group monitors its energy consumption, quantities of waste and emissions.
Total energy worldwide CO e emissions and usage of water.
2 costs are less than 3% of revenue, with only 2% Greenhouse Gas Reporting of the total energy requirements across the Group consumed in the UK.
In reporting GHG emissions, we have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Total Energy Consumption Reporting Standard revised edition methodology Overall Gas use increased by 0.3% in 2016 and to identify our GHG inventory of Scope 1 direct Electricity use decreased by 1.29%.
The underlying and Scope 2 indirect CO e. Both total emissions 2 data showed that improvements in some areas and normalised emissions have reduced in 2016. were offset by deterioration in others.
Vesuvius We report in kg of CO equivalent CO e. 2 2 senior engineers use the detailed analysis of normalised data to drive improvements across the business.
Global GHG emissions Kg of CO e 2 2016 2015 Emissions source Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 340m 362m Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 98m 99m Total GHG emissions 438m 461m -4.8% Vesuvius chosen intensity measurement: 511.0 529.8 Emissions reported above, normalised to per tonne of product output -3.5% Methodology We have reported to the extent reasonably practicable on all the emission sources required under Part 7 of the Accounting Regulations which fall within our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Scope 1 covers emissions from fuels used in our factories and of ces.
Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, heat, steam and hot water we purchase to supply our of ces and factories.
We have used data gathered to ful l our requirements under the CRC Energy Ef ciency scheme and emission factors from UK Governments and the IEA GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2016 in the calculation of our GHG.
Our Responsibility 57 Solar panels were installed at our Advanced Refractories facility in Port Kembla, Australia to supplement their energy usage.
In the first 4 months of operation, during Spring in Australia, the facility saved 20 tonnes of CO 2 emissions, generating between 500 and 750kWh of electricity per day.
The Group also meets all of its obligations in The iron and steel industry accounts for relation to the Carbon Reduction Commitment approximately 6.7% of total world CO emissions 2 Energy Ef ciency Scheme, the Producer and 18% of industrial CO emissions, with, 2 Responsibility Packaging Waste regulations and on average, 1.8 tonnes of CO being emitted for 2 the Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme by every tonne of steel produced.
With around 10 kg which the UK has implemented the EU Energy of refractory material required per tonne of steel Ef ciency Directive.
produced, careful selection of energy-saving refractories can bene cially impact on the net Energy Conservation Plan emission of CO. 2 The Vesuvius Energy Conservation Plan was In the foundry process, the amount of metal launched in 2011 with the objective of reducing melted versus sold is critical to a foundrys our normalised energy consumption by 10% pro tability.
Foseco continuously works with its over the following three years.
In June 2015 customers to increase the ratio of metal sold to we reset our focus and set the objective of metal melted.
Sometimes this is as low as 40% a 10% improvement using 2014 as our base year and we work with them to increase it to 70%.
Against that 2014 base, a 3% improvement has been realised towards this How Does Vesuvius Contribute?
Managing our energy intensity is part Since 2011 we have used a CO impact stamp 2 of enhancing our cost competitiveness.
It also to highlight the most energy ef cient solutions contributes to improving the total environmental in our portfolio of products and services and to impact of our customers.
support the deployment of energy ef cient Our Customers and Their Processes and sustainable solutions engineered by our technology departments.
Under the Vesuvius and Foseco brands, we deliver a large range of solutions that help our customers Bene ts are realised by: improve the productivity of their operations.
Enabling lighter, thinner and stronger These solutions also improve the quality of our components, leading to lighter vehicles and customers products and reduce the environmental less energy consumption footprint of their processes.
Improving customer processes through the Thermal optimisation and reject reduction are supply of innovative consumables to reduce key factors in the processes for which we supply energy intensity and the CO e intensity ratio 2 solutions.
Vesuvius contributes to the reduction Reducing customers refractory usage per tonne of its customers energy usage and subsequent of steel produced through higher quality, CO emissions through insulating materials, ow longer service life products 2 management, facilitating extended manufacturing Increasing the level of sound castings produced sequences and reduced downtime.
per tonne of metal melted through improved mould design and the application of molten metal ltration and feeding systems Vesuvius plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 People and Community The dedication and professionalism of our people is the most signi cant contributor to Vesuvius success.
Talent Management Vesuvius Global Mobility Ensuring leadership bench-strength and managing A core part of Vesuvius Global Mobility is the succession remain key areas of focus for Vesuvius.
This initiative recruits six In order to meet the demands of the business, young graduates on an annual basis, from two we operate the following programmes on different countries where we have a presence.
a continuous basis: With the help of the local HR teams, we contact universities and interview prospective candidates.
WINGS: Aimed at developing mid-level Three young engineers, specialising in Chemical managers, being those who manage other Engineering, Material Science or Metallurgy, managers or senior level staff.
Wings, now in its are selected in each country.
seventh year, is held in spring each year at Vlerick University in Belgium.
In 2016, 28 employees We are currently managing the fifth generation successfully completed the programme of the Columbus Program, as well as preparing HeaTt: The Vesuvius technical university aimed at for the sixth cycle.
We now have a new cohort continuous development of Vesuvius personnel of three South African and three South Korean with courses ranging from entry to expert level graduates, ready to start their careers at Vesuvius.
HR4HR: Aimed at giving the Vesuvius HR In addition to technical skills, we are also looking community the professional skills to respond to nd the Vesuvius management of the future.
better to the talent management and Out of 30 Columbus graduates, 24 remain within development needs of the organisation the Group.
Talent Management evolved signi cantly in 2016 Living the Values as our central talent management solutions The Living the Values Awards programme, now were rolled out to local HR managers globally, in its fourth year, celebrates and recognises the driving performance management and talent commitment of our people to our five values of identi cation deeper within the organisation.
creativity, integrity, cooperation, embracing During 2016, under the Vesuvius HR4HR project, diversity and reliability.
four HR professionals underwent training in On 26 May 2016, the Group Executive Committee psychometric assessment and evaluation, and nominees came together for an event each achieving Expert status.
to recognise the winners of the Living the Values Awards.
Franois Wanecq commented, I am very proud of all our winners who have demonstrated outstanding commitment to our values.
The Living the Values Awards programme is a key pillar of our corporate culture and we will continue to invest and believe in our community.
Each winner was awarded a trophy specially designed for our 100th anniversary.
Vesuvius also made a donation to each winners chosen charity.
Our Responsibility 59 Francisco Javier Gallegos Valero, winner of a Living the Values Award 2016 for Reliability, supported Hogar fide la Misericordia, an institution which has been serving children and the homeless for 30 years.
Vesuvius in the Local Community One of these initiatives is collecting plastic bottle tops which are donated to Recolecta Sonrisas, Vesuvius not only supports employees dedication an association which exchanges these bottle to our values but is committed to the ful lment tops for chemotherapy sessions for of our social responsibilities.
Two examples of the charitable work done In Cleveland, US the Company supports Harvest by Vesuvius employees are: for Hunger in association with the Cleveland Greater Food Bank.
In Mexico, Vesuvius is actively involved in many different campaigns to help the local community.
Employee Diversity Vesuvius believes that the diversity of its employees is one of the core strengths of the Group.
Having a balance of cultures, ethnicities and genders helps to promote the innovation and creativity that is key to our success.
We recognise that, in line with other companies of our size and nature, we have unbalanced gender representation, and are seeking to address this as part of our wider commitment to diversity.
Of these 104 Senior Managers, 48 directly report to members of the GEC, and of these four are women.
459 individuals in the Group are Directors of Group subsidiaries.
This disclosure is made to comply with regulatory requirements.
It includes Directors of dormant companies and those with multiple directorships.
Our Employees Employees by employment type Employees by region Employees by business unit G C F F A D E E A A D C B B C B A.
Flow Control 4,256 D. Shared Services 815 B.
Hourly 5,927 B. Europe 4,422 F. South America 1,047 B. Foundry 2,815 E. Head Of ce 45 C. Temps 922 C. India 818 G. South Asia 291 C. Advanced Ref 2,352 F. Tech Services 557 D. NAFTA 2,139 Vesuvius plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Go G Go ov v vern e er rn na anc a an n nc ce e e e 61 Section Four Governance In this section 62 Chairmans Governance Letter 63 Governance Report 70 Audit Committee 77 Nomination Committee 79 Directors Remuneration Report 79 Remuneration Overview 81 Remuneration Policy 90 Remuneration Report 99 Directors Report 103 Statement of Directors Responsibilities
