Vesuvius plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Health and Safety Vesuvius remains fundamentally committed to protecting employees, contractors and visitors in all areas of its activities.
Our goal is: No lost time injuries No repeat injuries No harm to our people or contractors Health and Safety programme involves employees at all levels from the Group Executive Committee and safety We have extended and intensified our Safety specialists through to local site management, Breakthrough initiative to raise health and safety employees and contractors.
In addition, the Take 2 performance to best-in-class levels throughout initiative ensures that employees think again before the Vesuvius business, with a specific focus on performing any unusual or non-standard activity.
employees based at customer locations.
For new contracts in customer locations, Vesuvius Our Safety Breakthrough initiative set a goal of: now uses a formal risk assessment which aims Training employees to work safely to identify significant risks to our employees and 47 Turbo.
S training sessions were performed contractors.
This enables appropriate control in 2016, involving 293 employees, from senior measures to be agreed and implemented with executive management to shop floor team the support of our customers in advance of management.
S training integrates all work commencing.
Vesuvius good safety management practices Working in tidy plants in the workplace, and enables all Vesuvius The continuing use of 5S, the workplace members to work in a safe environment.
organisation method, throughout the Group drives Permit to Work training, launched in the second workplace improvement.
The added support of half of 2015 in Europe, was extended worldwide Vesuvius Lean specialists has been key to improving to be implemented in all Group facilities, including plant safety by removing hazards for employees customer locations, during the first half of 2016. and offering a clear, bright and safe working We completed 97 training sessions for 600 environment.
Daily 5S audits led by team leaders managers from maintenance and operations, ensure continuous improvement of working as well as shop floor group leaders.
This training conditions and promote a safer workplace.
shared and extended recognised best practices Involving accountable management for throughout the Group.
safety performance Site safety improvement plans are now in place Working safely for all production sites with deployment being Ongoing deployment of standardised work the direct responsibility of local managers.
Poorly continues to contribute to improved workstation performing sites are expected to share their safety.
Daily safety audits have become a pillar of incident investigation and action plans and to our Safety Breakthrough initiative.
In 2016, more formally present their improvement plans to the than 76% of our working population performed Group Executive Committee.
Such an approach safety audits, generating a minimum of nine has proved highly successful in 2016, with the improvement opportunities per person, resulting worst performing sites seeing their safety records in an improvement in worker safety.
The audit improving through the year.
Our Responsibility 55 All injuries and dangerous occurrences continue to upper mould on a friction press.
Following a period be analysed locally, with a formal presentation of of rehabilitation the individual is now working findings, root causes and improvement actions again at the plant.
A major global review of our cascaded through management.
In addition, presses has been carried out with support from, executive safety tours at customer locations and training by, external specialists to ensure that have continued in 2016. such a terrible occurrence never happens again.
Accident and incident reporting and analysis We continue to work hard to reduce incident A signi cant investment in time and resources has severity and develop robust standards and been made over recent years to develop robust, practices aimed at improving the safety and comprehensive and timely reporting of incidents health of our people in all that they do.
In this including all res, explosions and any major spill regard, road safety and machinery safety remain or other chemical releases.
In its internal standards, particular areas of focus for us.
Vesuvius continues to use more stringent Our efforts to improve health and safety fide nitions for lost time injuries LTIs and severe continued to receive external recognition in 2016. accidents than the fide nitions used by the US Seven US sites received Presidents Awards from regulator, the Occupational Health and Safety The Refractories Institute TRI, for operating for Administration.
For all LTIs and Recordable a calendar year without a Lost Time Injury, whilst Incidents, Vesuvius has implemented a full Vesuvius USA received the TRI Chairmans Award investigation based on the 8D problem-solving for having the best overall company safety tool to identify the true root causes in order to record.
In addition, our UK sites received five prevent repeat incidents.
As part of management pledge awards from the UK awards sponsored reporting, the Board receives a monthly update by the Health and Safety Executive and the on all LTIs and Recordable Incidents.
Our Spanish plant, Safety Performance in 2016 Miranda fide Ebro received honourable mention for its contribution to the reduction of occupational Despite all of these efforts, in March 2016, accidents and received a bonus from the Spanish one of our Chinese operators had his right forearm Ministry of Employment and Social Security for not amputated by the unexpected dropping of the having had any accidents.
Safety performance in 2016 Lost time injuries per million hours worked LTIFR 12 month rolling 10 8 6 4 2 0 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
