34 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Delivering to our stakeholders Customers Priorities for 2017 We always look to build strong, lasting continue to invest in building our customer service relationships with our customers by capability and maintain a culture where customer service treating them as individuals not numbers, is a priority: delivering a consistently high standard of empower colleagues to deliver market-leading service and continually striving to exceed customer satisfaction: their expectations.
continue to provide straightforward, transparent products Aim that result in positive outcomes for customers: Our aim is to be positively different from the major banks and continue to recognise issues relating to accessibility, traditional providers by offering straightforward products financial inclusion and responsible lending: and with fair and transparent pricing, supported by the delivery of continue to develop our digital strategy and capability outstanding customer service.
Achievements in 2016 delivered growth in customer numbers across every product Award winning year category and increased our overall customer base by 15 per cent to 3.3 million: attracted younger and more affluent customers, driven by our credit card, insurance and current account businesses Virgin Money is the perfect case study to and saw consistently strong customer growth in our highlight what can be achieved when an mortgage and savings businesses: organisation and all of its colleagues are delivered superior customer satisfaction and advocacy with focused on listening and responding to the an overall Net Promoter Score NPS of 29, and resolved Voice of the Customer.
Virgin Money is more 99per cent of complaints within eight weeks: than deserving of the accolades it has received opened a new Lounge in Sheffield, in July 2016.
The NPS for from the Engage and UK Business Awards.
our award-winning Lounges was 86: won four credit card awards at the uSwitch awards, John O'Hara including Best Overall Customer Service, Best Application President of NICE - EMEA Process and Best for Balance Transfers: won Best Use of Voice of the Customer VoC at the prestigious 2016 Engage Awards: winner of the UK Business Awards in the customer centric organisation category for our VoC initiatives: and recognised by the Reputation Institute as one of Britains most trusted banks: 1 Excluding speculative PPI complaints.
Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report V i r g i n M o n e y L o u n g e, S h e ffi e l d Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 35 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 Financial inclusion Customer satisfaction NPS Opening a Basic Bank Account can be the first step towards Strong and improving customer advocacy, with an increase financial inclusion for many people.
As part of our ambition to to 29 in our overall NPS in 2016. make everyone better off we launched the Virgin Essential Current Account ECA in 2015.
The ECA supports financial Net Promoter Score NPS inclusion by setting a new standard for Basic Bank Accounts in the UK with no unpaid item fees and a fair rate of credit 2016 29 interest.
It is a free basic bank account designed to help our customers stay in control of their money.
The performance 2015 19 of the ECA was particularly strong during the year.
We almost 2014 16 tripled new accounts opened, compared to 2015.
We work at a local level with partners such as ScotCash, Citizens Advice We measure customer satisfaction using the industry Bureau, the Job Centre and a number of debt charities to raise standard Net Promoter Score.
We also use internal customer the visibility of the ECA.
We will continue to build on this and dashboards, which provide monthly information about will target both local and national partners in 2017. customers experiences and opinions relating to our products Virgin Money Lounges and services.
We aim to continually improve our customer Virgin Money Lounges continue to deliver strong customer service, experience and advocacy.
satisfaction with an NPS of 86 and we opened our seventh Lounge in Sheffield in the second half of the year.
Stores co-located with a Lounge broadly outperform the overall network based on sales performance.
Virgin Money Stores 50,000 visitors co-located with a Lounge per month broadly outperform thenetwork Exclusive for Virgin Money Free Wi-Fi, iPads, customers and Newspapers and community groups Magazines 7 Lounges 36 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Delivering to our stakeholders Colleagues Further information on how we aim to achieve gender parity Virgin Money's success is built firmly on the throughout the business - a 50:50 split - by 2020 can be commitment, skill and attitudes of all our found on page 26. people and our shared purpose of building 2016 gender pay gap a better bank which will make everyone Virgin Money welcomes the UK government initiative to improve better off.
pay equality through collecting and reporting gender pay data, Aim as at April each year.
Whilst these requirements come into effect from April 2017, we are voluntarily disclosing our gender pay gap, Our colleagues are integral to our success and it is through as at April 2016. their strong engagement and advocacy that we are able to deliver a strong and sustainable business performance.
We aim We have reviewed gender pay across the Company in 2016 and to provide an environment which nurtures a high performing, are confident men and women are paid fairly for the same and diverse and committed workforce, enabling all colleagues to similar jobs.
Virgin Moneys mean gender pay gap in April 2016 reach their full potential.
was 36 per cent median 39 per cent.
As explained by the Chief Executive on page 26, the gender pay gap at Virgin Money is Achievements in 2016 driven primarily by two factors: Investing in colleague development The under representation of women in the senior our Future Business Leaders talent acceleration programme leadership team: and created a pipeline of talent for leadership succession, winning the Personnel Today award for Talent Management: and The under representation of men in more junior roles.
we made our online Learning Lounge accessible from Consistent with the regulations we show below the gender any device to improve colleague access to learning and distribution across four equally sized quartiles based on pay.
We are committed to addressing gender imbalance and the Building colleague commitment resulting gender pay gap.
we maintained strong colleague engagement with an overall Priorities for 2017 engagement score of 81 per cent, which benchmarks strongly Investing in colleague development against UK high performing companies: and We will continue our investment in colleague development through: we improved transparency on our approach to determining our new Apprenticeship Programme, which creates career pay and bonus outcomes through personalised Total Reward development opportunities for colleagues and provides a statements, a Pension Planner and a series of roadshows.
diverse pipeline of entry level talent: Creating a diverse workforce our My Career programme, which provides colleagues with we held our first mental health awareness week, showcased the ability to develop skills and expertise for both their current the work of Heads Together, our Corporate charity for role and possible future roles: 2016 17, and we achieved the new Disability Confident accreditation: and our Coaching Academy, which provides all colleagues with access to targeted coaching and mentoring to accelerate the we committed to matching flexible working arrangements development and progression of under-represented groups: for senior positions, to ensure those joining the business can balance their work life commitments.
2016 gender pay gap analysis This illustration divides staff into four groups based on pay and discloses the gender balance in each quartile.
There are significantly more women in the lowest quartile and the average pay for men and women is the same.
In the highest quartile there Lowest Quartile 2 Quartile 3 Highest are more men and the average gender pay gap is 0.6% pay gap 1.7% pay gap 2.5% pay gap 13.8% pay gap 13.8 per cent.
"Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 37 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 our Me As A Manager programme, which develops people managers and aspiring people managers to create the right conditions for all colleagues to flourish: and ""We are passionate about creating a bank that our Me As A Leader programme, which builds senior team reflects the diversity of broader society and capability through the development of key skills such as engages people of all backgrounds equally."
personal resilience and a growth mind-set.
During 2016, we improved the diversity of our work Building colleague commitment force and narrowed the difference in engagement Our annual colleague survey told us that we need to listen more levels of our ethnic minority and LGBT colleagues carefully to all minority groups to understand their needs better.
We will continue to seek higher levels of engagement from all to the Company average.
We remain committed colleagues through: to improving both greater diversity and equal our colleague Affinity Group, which will be a catalyst for inclusion across the Company in 2017. colleagues to come together to identify and support minority We will continue to support the British Black colleague interests: Business Awards which recognise and celebrate we will work with external experts to ensure we take action the outstanding achievements of black people that will make a real difference to minority colleague in UK business.
In 2017, this partnership will interests: and extend to delivering a pan-industry programme we have appointed Executive sponsors for each minority toimprove BAME representation at senior levels.
group to ensure that debate and action is championed at the We will also be a founding partner of EMpower, highest level: which will promote equality of opportunity and - Tim Arthur, Creative Director LGBT inclusion through the empowerment of ethnic - Marian Martin, Chief Risk Officer Ethnicity minority employees.
- Hugh Chater, Chief Commercial Officer Disability Support of our LGBT community will continue Creating a diverse workforce through our new Affinity Group, ongoing We believe a diverse workforce will drive better business participation in Pride events across the UK, and outcomes, bring different perspectives to our decision making, partnerships with OUTstanding, the Scottish and create a colleague base which is more representative of Business in the Community Network and broader society.
Colleague engagement and performance will be enhanced if colleagues feel able to be themselves at work, Stonewall.
in an inclusive environment which promotes both physical and We intend to be early adopters of the UK mental wellbeing.
governments new gender pay gap reporting In 2016 we improved the representation of ethnic minority and requirements and support the findings of both LGBT colleagues within the company.
To maintain this progress the Hampton-Alexander and Parker reports, which in 2017, we will: advocate action to generate improved gender set targets and deploy recruitment strategies to drive a and ethnic equality in business.
"greater diversity of candidate interest in roles: We will continue to celebrate difference and work develop all our people managers to value and enable diversity and be mindful of their own unconscious bias: to ensure every colleague feels equally valued and able to thrive at Virgin Money. """
broaden our use of technology to support and enable flexible working and improve contact with absent colleagues: and deliver an online portal where colleagues can receive greater Matt Elliott People Director, Virgin Money support in relation to physical and mental wellbeing.
Initiatives relating to gender equality are covered in the Women in Finance update on page 26.
38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Delivering to our stakeholders Corporate partners We look to partner with businesses that Priorities for 2017 genuinely understand and share our continue to innovate and deliver outstanding levels of service to our network of professional mortgage philosophy of making everyone better off.
intermediary partners: Aim continue to strengthen relationships with, and oversight of, We aim to maintain our strong track record in managing our corporate partners: mutually beneficial relationships with corporate partners enhance our customer communication strategy through our in order to complement our own business and core banking print and communications partner, Communisis, capabilities with our partners technical product expertise and with a focus on enhancing our digital communication infrastructure.
capabilities: and Achievements in 2016 continue to strengthen our non-interest income product delivered a new retention platform for intermediaries lines, including the launch of a new Life Insurance and our direct mortgage business through our innovative proposition and creating broader awareness of our Travel Mortgage Lab.
Net mortgage lending increased by 20 per Money and International Money Transfer services.
cent to 4.3 billion, driven by both strong gross lending and Strategic corporate partners improved customer retention during the year: We operate strategic partnerships that enable us to combine won the Best Lender for Partnership with Mortgage Club the Virgin Money philosophy, brand and core banking at the L&G Mortgage Club annual awards for the second capabilities with partners technical product expertise and year in a row and our intermediary NPS improved from 40 infrastructure.
We also partner with a number of providers in 2015 to 55: to support our non-interest income product lines.
This wonBest Intermediary Lender Award at the Mortgage is particularly relevant when it is more efficient for us to Finance Gazette Awards: partner with an established provider, than to build our own infrastructure.
received 'Five Stars' in the Mortgage category at the Financial Adviser Service Awards: Modern Slavery statement won the Innovation Culture Award at the Corporate Virgin Money has a zero tolerance towards slavery, servitude, Entrepreneur Awards and the Innovation Award at the forced labour and human trafficking Modern Slavery and is Mortgage Finance Gazette Awards forour Mortgage Lab: committed to conducting business with honesty and integrity and treating everyone with dignity and respect.
The review won the Best Direct Travel Insurance provider at the of our existing policies, processes and contracts showed that Your Money Awards and we were proud to provide travel they embrace the principles of the act and we work closely insurance to the UK Invictus Games Team when they with our partners and suppliers to ensure this is the case.
competed in Florida: and We will continually review our policies, processes and controls, signed a four-year deal with Manchester United Football improve the mapping of our supply chain to identify areas of Club to become its official UK retail financial services risk and develop key performance indicators KPIs to measure partner.
Our Champions Bond was shortlisted at the the effectiveness of our approach.
To read our Modern Slavery Financial Innovation Awards and the partnership has been a statement in full please visit virginmoney.
"Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 39 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 ""Virgin Money continues to put the Intermediary at the heart of everything they do."
"They have invested heavily in the right systems and processes to make it easier for an Intermediary to do business and have been working with brokers in their Mortgage Lab to make sure that this happens every time. """
Stephen Smith Director, Housing Partnerships Legal & General Mapfre Asistencia is proud to be a long standing partner of Virgin Money for the delivery of the Travel Insurance proposition.
Weve shared a strong and profitable relationship over several years, which has delivered a market leading customer proposition and strong growth to both parties.
Virgin Moneys EBO philosophy and customer focus mirrors that of Mapfre Group and we continue to enjoy a successful and transparent trading relationship.
Our partnership with Virgin Money is our pre-eminent market relationship and we look forward to extending that relationship and continuing to support the business in its exciting plans for development and growth.
Jair Marrugo Managing Director UK & IRE Mapfre 40 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Delivering to our stakeholders Communities competition for primary schools aimed at introducing the Our community activity raises awareness world of enterprise to young people: of the Virgin Money brand and business Virgin Money participated in two new Business in the as a force for good and covers four Community programmes: a UK-wide initiative to promote key areas: fundraising: investing in the benefits of employing ex-servicemen and women, education, employability and enterprise: and the National Action Plan for Responsible Business in Scotland: and supporting local communities, and supporting colleague engagement in their colleagues volunteered 1,679 days to good causes.
Priorities for 2017 continue to invest in Virgin Money Giving to help charities Aim and fundraisers raise more for good causes in the UK: We are committed to supporting the communities in which we work to help them flourish, both socially and economically.
extend the reach of the Virgin Money Foundation beyond the North East of England: Achievements in 2016 continue to invest in a range of programmes which 92 million was donated to charities through Virgin Money support young people in developing financial and Giving, our not-for-profit online donation service, taking entrepreneurial skills: and the total raised for charities since its launch in 2009 to over 500 million: support colleagues engaging in local community projects.
runners in the 2016 Virgin Money London Marathon raised 59.4 million for charity, up from 54.1 million in 2015, Over 500 million setting a new world record for an annual, single day charity raised through Virgin Money Giving, since fundraising event for the tenth successive year: launch in October 2009 the Virgin Money Foundation, launched in August 2015, awarded grants totalling almost 1 million in 2016 to Charity of the year organisations in the North East of England working in the Chosen by colleagues, our Charity of the Year for 2015 2016 areas of housing and homelessness and youth employment: and the official charity of the 2016 Virgin Money London the national roll-out of the LifeSavers financial education Marathon was the NSPCC.
The NSPCC is the leading programme commenced.
With Virgin Moneys financial childrens charity fighting to end child abuse in the UK and support it will help 30,000 children learn more about money Channel Islands.
They raised over 2.1 million through their over the next three years.
The LifeSavers programme partnership with Virgin Money, including 218,933 raised supports primary schools to embed financial education by Virgin Money colleagues.
The money raised helped the within the whole school curriculum and encourages parents NSPCCs Childline service to recruit and train more counsellors and the wider community to get involved in childrens to reduce waiting times and ensure they can provide support financial education: to every child who needs them.
over 350 schools and over 17,000 young people participated Our Charity of the Year for 2016 2017 and the official in our Make 5 Grow programme, and the launch of a new charity of the 2017 Virgin Money London Marathon is the website extended the reach of the programme.
Make 5 Heads Together campaign, spearheaded by The Duke and Grow is Virgin Moneys enterprise education programme Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry to end stigma around which aims to give young people aged between nine and mental health.
eleven years old the experience of starting a small business using a 5 loan from Virgin Money: over 48,000 young people participated in the 2016 Fiver Challenge, delivered by Young Enterprise and funded by Virgin Money.
The Fiver Challenge is a national Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 41 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 The NSPCC was delighted to raise over 2 million from the 2016 Virgin Money London Marathon.
The money raised is going towards a project to transform our Childline service.
The money raised by our incredible marathon runners will pay for our trained volunteer counsellors to answer 500,000 childrens calls for help to Childline.
Thank you to Virgin Money for giving us this fantastic opportunity to make a difference to the lives of so many vulnerable children.
Peter Wanless Chief Executive NSPCC Kenenisa Bekele at the Virgin Money London Marathon Photo: Virgin Money London Marathon 42 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Delivering to our stakeholders Environment continue to reduce the need for unnecessary business travel At Virgin Money we are committed and be more conscious regarding the way we allocate and to taking positive action to eliminate consume our resources: the impact our activities have on the continue the streamlining of our internal processes and broader environment and target Net Zero promote the behavioural changes required to drive a Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions by 2030. reduction in energy use: incorporate further environmental considerations into the Aim assessment process for all new contracts: and Our aim is to protect the environment by conducting our business in a sustainable, ethical and responsible way.
We will engage CDP to help us to identify areas for improvement contribute towards a lower carbon, more resource efficient in our supply chain and further reduce our impact on economy by measuring, monitoring and controlling our the environment.
Managing our emissions The Group is required to report on GHG emissions under the Achievements in 2016 Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report fi nalised a transparent methodology to define total GHG Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The Group follows the Emissions for the Group: principles of the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and the engaged with the Major Energy Users Council, Energy Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA Savings Trust and Business in the Community to help Voluntary Reporting 2012 Guidelines the Guidelines to develop our strategic proposals and made progress against calculate its emissions in Scope 1, 2 and 3. our plan to achieve Net Zero GHG Emissions by 2030 by: We have reported comprehensive data on GHG emissions - completing the deployment of modern desktop and within Scope 1 and 2, and business travel within Scope 3, mobile software to all colleagues, enhancing both since 2014.
During 2016, we have continued to improve our efficiency and security: performance and reduce our total GHG emissions.
- commencing a programme of removing over 200 servers Scope for disclosure from our infrastructure: and Reported Scope 1 emissions: cover emissions generated - securing 100% renewable energy for electricity contracts from the gas and oil used in all buildings from which within our direct control.
the Group operates: emissions generated from Groupraised awareness of environmental initiatives across the owned vehicles used for business travel: and fugitive Company to ensure that all colleagues are empowered emissions arising from the use of air-conditioning and to make a difference.
This included the provision of new chiller refrigerant equipment to service the Groups tools such as Skype for business which reduces the property portfolio: need for travel: Reported Scope 2 emissions: cover emissions generated ensured all suppliers understand the part they can from the use of electricity in all buildings from which the play in reducing the impact their operations have on Group operates: and the environment by incorporating an environmental Reported Scope 3 emissions: relate to business travel assessment into our procurement process: and undertaken by all colleagues using rail, private vehicles, hired vehicles, contracted taxi services and air travel.
completed our first submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP and achieved a C rating, a solid base from which to progress.
Priorities for 2017 finalise the strategy to achieve Net Zero GHG Emissions by 2030: Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 43 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 Omissions Independent assurance The data gathering process for figures within our Scope 1 Although not required by the Regulations, we appointed and 2 reporting is continuous and calculated using the most  LLP PwC in 2016 to undertake a accurate information available at the time.
If more accurate limited assurance engagement under the ISAE 3410 assurance data becomes available or updated CO emission factors are standards for Scope 1 GHG data highlighted in this report with 2 applied, this may lead to a restatement of data.
Their assurance report is available on virginmoney.
a comprehensive energy consumption review at our Gosforth Use of resources site performed during 2016, we have restated the Scope 2 comparative disclosure.
The table below shows actual consumption in 2016 compared with 2015.
Compliance with the Regulations Restated We have achieved full compliance with the Regulations for 2016 2015 the whole of its property portfolio.
Estimated emissions relate Energy Stated in Gwh 19.6 20.2 to energy consumption in two properties where the supply %fromrenewable sources 56% 51% is controlled by the landlord and the Group is subsequently recharged.
In these properties, energy costs are allocated on a Travel Total miles travelled 5.7m 6.4m floor area basis.
Waste Tonnes produced 567.6 532.9 Fugitive emissions arise from the use of air conditioning and % sent to landfill 2% 6% chiller refrigerant equipment to service our property portfolio.
Water Cubic metres per FTE 12.7 18.7 Leakage rate and emission factors from the Guidelines have been applied to each asset on the register according to the Energy % renewable energy use stated for office, Store and Lounge locations.
This information is gathered and reported by Travel includes all air, rail, taxi and public transport processed through either ourcorporate travel provider or claimed through personal expenses.
The data is included within Waste includes trade and secure waste for offices, Stores and Lounges.
the Scope 1 segment of the GHG table listed below.
Water consumption is for metered sites only, the 2015 leak which was highlighted atthemain office site in Gosforth has been fully resolved.
GHG emissions CO e tonnes Identifies figures which have been restated.
Scope Restated 2016 2015 Scope 1 1,753.8 1,868.7 Scope 2 4,933.0 5,720.7 Scope 3 998.8 1,188.7 Total 7,685.6 8,778.1 Intensity ratio We have chosen to use an intensity ratio of GHG per Full Time Equivalent FTE.
FTE is straightforward to calculate and verify and also normalises consumption in a growing business.
We are encouraged by the reduction in this ratio in 2016.
Scope Restated 2016 2015 GHG emissions per 2.66 tCO e 3.11 tCO e averageFTE 1 The level of assurance provided for a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than a reasonable assurance agreement.
A summary of the work PwC performed is included within their assurance opinion.
Non-financial performance information, GHG quantification in particular, is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information.
It is important to read the data in the context of PwCs full statement and Virgin Moneys reporting guidelines available at virginmoney.
