Strategic report Sustainability report Delivering long-term sustainability Victrexs sustainability strategy seeks to build on the competitive advantage we already offer to our customers and our markets, for example in reducing CO in Transport.
Our focus is on 2 three key areas: sustainable solutions, resource efficiency and social responsibility.
Introduction from the Chief Executive Since we introduced our sustainability vision and targets our2023Vision two years ago, Victrex has made tangible progress.
Sustainability is now embedded across our business and, through sustainable solutions, resource efficiency and social responsibility, wehave clear long-term targets, as well as interim deliverables.
In a tougher trading environment this year, we have also increased ourfocus on becoming a more efficient and effective organisation.
Delivering growth and shareholder value can only be supported by retaining a low cost manufacturing base, together with being efficient in how we develop, distribute and, ultimately, sell our products.
Despite weaker environmental indicators due to lower sales volumes but more manufacturing capacity I am pleased to say that we are now closing in on becoming carbon neutral, a reflection of the progress we have made in recent years, particularly in our Transport markets.
Our sustainable products help to save CO in Aerospace and 2 Automotive, to balance our own carbon footprint.
Last year we independently reviewed the method of measuring CO savings in 2 Transport and in 2016 we engaged with key suppliers to understand the climate change impact within our supply chain.
At a community level, I am encouraged by the participation of employees across our business.
Not only are we supporting local schools and community centres, we have an employee network in place to foster and support the engineers and scientists of tomorrow, demonstrating the capability that Victrex has as a technology and science-led business.
Whilst this activity is predominantly in the UK, we are shaping our plans to ensure our employees across the globe can make a positive contribution to our sustainability strategy.
Our employees and our business continue to be viewed favourably by our wider stakeholders, which helped Victrex secure a top 20 position in Britains Most Admired Companies this year.
We also secured the runner-up position for the chemicals sector.
Reflecting how our strategy is focused on moving further downstream beyond the polymer and into more specialised manufacturing, wehavetaken the opportunity to reshape some of our environmental indicators, largely to target CO rather than energy from a unit of 2 revenue, ensuring that we remain practical in our 2023 targets, as wellas being able to deliver long-term improvement.
As we move into semi-finished and finished products and components, sustainability remains integral to our strategy and long-term success.
David Hummel Chief Executive 6 December 2016 David Hummel Chief Executive Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 25 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Our sustainability goals Victrex is committed to creating and delivering sustainable benefits and solutions to our customers and our markets, alongside maximising our resource efficiency across our global footprint.
Sustainable solutions Resource efficiency Social responsibility Vision: Vision: Vision: Develop and deliver sustainable polymer Maximise resource efficiency across Inspire the next generation by supporting solutions that provide clear social and thevalue chain science, technology, engineering and environmental benefits to society maths education STEM 2023 target: 2023 target: 2023 target: Save more CO than we produce 50% reduction in CO per revenue 10,000 employee hours cumulative u u u 2 2 carbonneutral supporting community activity by 2023 50% reduction in waste per revenue u 5 million tonne reduction of CO 1,000 young people reached through u u 2 inAerospace and Automotive education activities 10 million patients with PEEK-OPTIMA 75% of employees engaged u u implanted globally onsustainability Our 2023 Vision: interim targets Metric: Metric: Metric: CO savings Reduction in energy and waste Employee involvement in the community u u u 2 Scale of patient benefits Tonnes CO per revenue Number of young people worked with u u u 2 Interim targets: Interim targets: Interim targets: Employee network in place Independently review method of Complete an energy efficiency To tosupport community STEM measuring CO savings in Transport assessment and establish 2 do education activities intheUK byend by September 2015 along-termplan of 2015 and globally byendof 2016 Extend PEEK-OPTIMA further Engage with key suppliers by FY16 to Support Fleetwood High School to To intonew andexisting spinal identify their climate change impact achieve improved STEM academic do therapeutic areas and improvement plans results by end of2017 Extend PEEK-OPTIMA and other Establish an R&D programme by FY15 Victrex Catalyst Science Education enabling polymers into new toidentify process yield improvements Centre project fully up and running therapeuticareas and waste reduction opportunities by end of 2015 Employee engagement Engage with key suppliers by FY16 To Extend Invibio Biomaterial Solutions insustainability assessed in2015s toidentify their waste impact and do into emerging geographies employee survey, withresults improvement plans benchmarked against peer companies 26 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Doing business the right way globalcode of conduct Acting ethically and responsibly is not only the right thing to do, Acting ethically butalso the right thing to do for our business, helping us to Victrex is a signatoryof the Prompt maintain our competitive advantage.
The Global Code of Conduct, Payment Code for suppliers.
further details of which can be found in the corporate governance section starting on page 38, is a fundamental guide to upholding our good reputation as a business and one that can be trusted by our employees, customers, suppliers, partners and investors and all other stakeholder groups with whom we engage.
Our success as abusiness rests on maintaining this trust and ensuring that we are acompany that upholds the highest standards of integrity.
We have a zero tolerance approach to behaviour thatbreaches our Code ofConduct.
Our three principles of ethical business conductare: We are honest, transparent We respect the privacy We investigate reports and trustworthy in all our ofindividuals and other ofpotential breaches 1 dealings, both within Victrex 2 organisations with 3 oftheCodeof Conduct.
and in all our external whomwework.
Performance reviews from  Pages 16 to 19 Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 27 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Sustainable solutions Sustainable solutions focuses on how we deliver products and services which shape future performance, and which provide clear environmental and social benefits to our customers andmarkets.
independent review of the methods of measuring CO savings.
Shaping future performance 2 Weintroduced our composites offering into the Aerospace market The demands on material performance across our markets remain composites will also have applications in the Automotive, Oil& Gas strong.
Achieving higher performance with less continues to be and Medical markets to build on our existing and longstanding important: less material, less energy, less waste, less noise, less time applications within Aerospace, for example PEEK inUnloaded Brackets with less cost.
This requires innovation in developing solutions for and in Thermal Acoustic Blankets.
In Medical, we made further progress in extending Invibios Our PEEK and PAEK polymers continue to offer the benefits of reduced solutions into emerging geographies, with regulatory submissions cycle times the potential for quicker manufacturing, as well as the inSouth America for our PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced product associated properties that make our polymers one of the highest forthe Spine market, building on existing qualifications in Asia.
Our customers continue to specify our Further developing our polymers for new therapeutic areas has also polymers in many of their applications, whether it be in Aerospace to been important, with our Trauma programme signing a development fly lighter, in Automotive to reduce wear and improve durability, in agreement with a major device manufacturer, as well as investing Electronics to deliver thinner, smaller and smarter devices, in Energy inadedicated Trauma plate manufacturing facility this year.
to improve durability and recover more, or in Medical Applications to help address an ageing global population.
Further sustainability and cost efficiency opportunities are being explored, including focusing on the sustainability of our supply chain Our sustainable solutions area made progress this year, by moving as we move further downstream into more specialised manufacturing.
closer towards becoming carbon neutral, following on from our Focus: sustainability a key target for the Aerospace industry manufacturing time and system costs: this is due to a new kind ofhybrid moulding technology which can enable smarter designs as well as the use of semior fully automated mass production techniques.
Just like metals, the VICTREX PAEK-based composite structures can be over-moulded with short fibre reinforced VICTREX PEEK polymers.
Environmental benefits include reduced energy consumption, elimination of secondary process steps such as autoclave curing, and the use of 100% recyclable materials that have unlimited shelf life.
Components manufactured in this way can perform extremely well under load.
Target applications include brackets, clamps, clips and housings used throughout the aircraft in primary and secondary structures, from the cabin including seats to the engines and fuel tank.
New material solutions allow lower processing costs and reduced CO emissions.
A novel way for the Aerospace industry to address environmental 2 challenges is 3D printing processes additive manufacturing Determined to further reduce CO emissions and address 2 AM.
Victrex plays a lead role in driving innovation, by heading environmental challenges, the Aerospace industry takes advantage an industry consortium that explores the innovative use of new of composite materials.
One reason but not the only one is that PAEK polymer grades.
These will be specifically designed to work composites are inherently lighter than traditional metals.
in additive manufacturing processes, for multiple applications.
A new Victrex material technology combination is now set to be The consortium was announced in 2016 and includes Victrex, given an additional boost.
Victrex AE 250-based composite Exeter University and Airbus UK.
solutions have shown weight savings of up to 60% under certain A key objective is the improvement of the recycle rate for circumstances when compared to metals such as aluminium, powders used in the laser sintering LS additive manufacturing stainless steel and titanium.
This can translate into improved fuel technique, to significantly reduce polymer wastage and costs.
efficiency and reduced CO emissions.
Equally important, these 2 High value, lower volume applications such as aircraft components composites have also shown up to five times higher specific are the types of applications that could benefit the most in the strength compared to metals.
Aerospace sector, as well as in the medical industry.
The second environmental reason in favour of composites is that Aerospace remains just one of the markets that Victrex can drive they can outperform metals in the manufacturing process, as sustainability benefits from.
traditional Aerospace metals frequently require surface preparation 1 Sources and finishing processes that can result in dangerous waste.
A further advantage of the next-generation, high strength, continuously reinforced composites is the reduction of 28 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Resource efficiency A measure of how we are performing in maximising efficiency across our own operations and across the value chain is shown in our 2023 Vision on page 26.
Resource efficiency Principal environmental impacts The unique characteristics of our lightweight, versatile and durable The Groups operations and environmental impact are set out in the products help our customers to be more environmentally sustainable charts on page 32 and are different from the Groups overall GHG and resource efficient.
For example, Victrex polymers help our emissions see overleaf.
These show energy use, water use and Aerospace and Automotive customers to reduce the weight of their waste from our UK activities, which include all of our manufacturing aircraft and vehicles to improve fuel efficiency and reduce CO operations.
The impact from our overseas gears facility and our 2 emissions.
Our bold target of reducing CO emissions in Aerospace technical and office facilities is not material and is not included.
2 by 5 million tonnes shows the commitment we have in this area.
We have reported data per unit of revenue to best align our indicators InMedical, the wear characteristics of PEEK polymer is helping spinal with our business strategy based on our varied product mix, along with fusion patients, whilst in the emerging area of polymer knees, absolute data to demonstrate our total impact.
As noted elsewhere, ourdevices can be injection moulded to reduce surgery time.
environmental indicators weakened this year, due to lower sales At the same time, we have an impact on the environment through volumes but more manufacturing capacity.
As we move downstream the resources that we use to make our products and the processes into specialised manufacturing, CO per unit of revenue will be more 2 that we operate.
This is where resource efficiency comes in.
CO emissions are reported separately, as part of our 2 focused on controlling these impacts and, as we grow, are committed greenhouse gas emissions report under the Companies Act 2006 to continual improvement.
Our priorities remain the efficient use of Directors Report Regulations 2013. energy and waste minimisation and we are proactively delivering continual improvement to address these areas.
Compliance Proactively staying well ahead of environmental standards is part For example, this year a development programme has successfully ofVictrexs philosophy across our operations.
focused on the optimisation of the manufacturing process for oneof our special PAEK grades, Victrex ST.
It was identified on Our manufacturing plants are regulated under Environmental laboratory scale that the manufacturing process reaction time could Permitting Regulations and, as such, are subject to close regulatory be significantly reduced.
This was successfully scaled up to full review by the UK Environment Agency.
We carry out extensive production plant scale, significantly reducing energy consumption routine environmental monitoring to make sure our plants are well and waste, as well as improving product consistency.
When we design and build new plants we work closely scale-up has resulted in a 30% reduction in cycle time forthe with the agency to make sure that the best available techniques manufacture of this product and an improvement in product toprotect the environment are adopted.
The latter improvement has eliminated the requirement We recorded one environmental notifiable event during the year.
for reprocessing of Victrex ST batches, which has further reduced Atour Hillhouse manufacturing plant in the UK, during routine energy usage and emissions.
environmental monitoring, we detected an instance when the emission To further help improve our understanding of the environmental of acetone from a plant vent was slightly elevated above agreed impact of our operations, this year we completed a new product levels, but with no potential to cause an environmental impact.
The results are helping us to prioritise our efforts.
There were no other environmental notifiable events at any of our To better reflect our efforts to reduce our carbon impact, we are other UK manufacturing sites.
alsointroducing new CO intensity targets.
2 During the year we successfully maintained ISO 14001:2004 accreditation for the environmental management system on our compounded pellets production plant, validating our high level commitment to environmental improvement.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 29 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Resource efficiency continued Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Our emissions have been calculated based on the GHG Protocol In 2016, we took the opportunity to commission an independent Corporate Standard.
Emissions reported correspond with our review of our GHG reporting.
Improvement findings from the financial year.
We have included emissions from both our owned review have been incorporated into the new submission.
and leased assets for which we are responsible in the UK and In addition, this year, in accordance with the updated GHG overseas.
This includes our manufacturing plant, technical centres Protocol Scope 2 guidance we have calculated our scope 2 and offices.
No material Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions are emissions using the market-based method 10,670 tonnes CO e. 2 omitted.
Emissions have been calculated using data gathered We have market-based data for 75% of our Scope 2 emissions tofulfil our reporting requirements under Climate Change based on supplier declarations.
Agreements on two of our manufacturing sites we operate undera tenancy agreement at our Seal Sands facility.
National Whilst absolute direct emissions increased this year, and regional emission conversion factors have been used.
encouragingly, our indirect emissions from electricity purchased Whilstnot a mandatory requirement, we have included Scope 3 and from transport of goods and employees decreased.
emissions in our report for greater transparency.
These include Victrex also continues to participate in the Carbon Disclosure indirect emissions from employee travel and distribution of goods.
Project, where our performance ranking was Awareness C Our GHG emissions are predominantly from gas and oil combustion thisyear 2015: 84D in line with the industry average C ranking.
and electricity useon our manufacturing plants in theUK.
Emissions from our gears manufacturing facility in Grantsburg, USA, are relatively immaterial compared with the UK manufacturing plant.
Additionally, emissions from our overseas technical facilities and offices are relatively immaterial to those from our UK activities, which explains our focus on UK reporting metrics.
Victrex greenhouse gasemissions 2016 Tonnes of CO equivalent 2016 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 2 fromPEEK manufacture Direct emissions resulting from Indirect emissions resulting from .
combustion of fuels Tonnes CO e electricity purchased location- 2 based method Tonnes CO e 2 2016 22,039 2016 15,871 Scope 3 2015 21,194 2015 17,603 2014 16,711 2014 14,985 2013 14,330 2013 12,612 2012 16,303 2012 13,268 Scope 1 Scope 2 SCOPE 3 INTENSITY MEASUREMENT Other indirect emissions from SCOPE 1 AND 2 related activities such as transport Tonnes CO e m revenue 2 of goods andemployees Tonnes CO e 2 52 39 9 2016 2,699 2016 150 2015 3,839 2015 147 2014 2,815 2014 125 2013 1,462 2013 121 2012 1,936 2012 135 Note: Following the independent review undertaken of our GHG reporting, all our prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly.
30 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report REACH The EU Chemicals Policy known as REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals Regulations is a well established regulatory regime for the chemical industry and Victrex has well established processes in place to comply with it.
Weregularly monitor and review to ensure that raw materials involved in our manufacturing process are compliant and that REACH will not adversely impact on the security of supply, which isimportant both for Victrex and for our customers, who are focusingon long-term demand.
There has not been, and we do notanticipate, any disruption to the supply of products arising fromthe regulations.
Following the EU Referendum Brexit, we arealso monitoring any potential amendments to regulations suchas REACH, or other EU-led legislation.
Health and safety Protecting the occupational safety and health of all our employees, along with contractors and visitors to our sites, remains the highest priority for Victrex.
We continue to have a strong track record and have won several accolades to mark our success in this area.
We received the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Order of Distinction award this year.
It is the 19th consecutive year that we have received an award and the fifth yearrunning that we have received an Order of Distinction award, agreat achievement and one which underlines our significant commitment to health and safety and consistent high level ofperformance.
Whilst we have a strong track record, we set targets to drive continual safety, health and environment SHE performance improvement.
During the year, well over 1.3 million employee hours were worked with no employee reportable injuries and no cases of reportable ill health.
This has been achieved by establishing and maintaining a strong health and safety culture throughout the business from the Executive team to the shop floor.
We have a strong business risk management culture and believe that good health and safety management is just one part of it.
The occupational health and safety of contractors working on our sites is of equal importance as our employees.
With ongoing investment in new projects, over 60,000 contractor hours have been 1.3m worked on our UK manufacturing site at Hillhouse.
We recorded only one contractor reportable injury when a contractor stumbled on a stairway and suffered an ankle injury.
Health and safety employee hours worked management remains a priority during projects, achieved by withnoreportable injuries.
workingclosely with project contractors to ensure that robust project health and safety procedures are in place and that they areactively monitored, audited and reviewed.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 31 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Resource efficiency continued This year, our environmental indicators have declined due to lower sales volumes in our expanded manufacturing assets.
This has meant we have not seen beneficial economies of scale, although it should be noted that our recent manufacturing investments were made inline with our previous investments ahead of demand.
Energy use UK operations Primary energy Primary energy per unitrevenue In line with previous reporting, energy use is Thousands GJ Thousands GJ m reported for our UK manufacturing sites.
Energy per unit revenue has increased slightly 2016 735 2016 2.9 this year and energy per unit of production 2015 731 2015 2.8 has also increased.
This is primarily because oflower volumes in our manufacturing plant.
2014 574 2014 2.3 Whilst energy is a priority sustainability target 2013 518 2013 2.3 for us as part of our resource efficiency focus, 2012 591 2012 2.7 a focus on CO per unit of revenue will 2 become more appropriate and reflective ofour strategy going forward.
Accordingly from FY 2017 this will be shown as CO per unit of revenue.
2 Water UK operations Water usage Water usage per unitrevenue Water use is reported for our UK 3 3 Thousands m Thousands m m operations.
Our overseas water usage isnot material.
Our manufacturing 2016 532 2016 2.1 operations are not in regions which 2015 602 2015 2.3 experience water shortages.
Pleasingly, total water usage and usage per unit 2014 499 2014 2.0 revenuedecreased, driven by lower 2013 377 2013 1.7 volumes manufactured.
Water use 2012 474 2012 2.2 perunitof production has reduced.
Waste UK operations Hazardous waste produced Hazardous waste produced per Whilst our manufacturing process Tonnes unitrevenue Tonnes m generates hazardous waste, we work closely with licensed waste service 2016 51,041 2016 202 providers to ensure that it is recovered, 2015 60,908 2015 231 recycled or disposed of with minimal environmental impact.
2014 55,072 2014 218 2013 47,254 2013 213 We have invested in improving and optimising the production process to 2012 49,106 2012 223 reduce waste, but we are already striving to reduce it further.
This is a priority sustainability objective and there is an Hazardous waste disposed to Hazardous waste disposed to ongoing programme of work to examine landfill after treatment Tonnes landfill after treatment per how we can further minimise generation unitrevenue Tonnes m of waste at source and how we can also recover value from waste generated over 2016 1 2016 0.00 the medium term.
Pleasingly, waste per 2015 12 2015 0.05 unit of production reduced further this year, 2014 14 2014 0.06 following reductions in previous years.
2013 15 2013 0.07 2012 13 2012 0.06 32 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Social responsibility In line with our proactive vision to inspire the next generation of talent by supporting science, engineering, technology and maths education, our social responsibility focus has been enhanced this year, whilst maintaining our commitment to employees and the communities where we operate, both in the UK and globally.
Employees as at year end Average number of people employed during the year including Directors, by category IN 1993 TOTAL: TOTAL: 60 742 765 16 54 30 L15 55 30 L IN 2016 IN 2015 IN 2016 Make 401 Make 416 756 Develop, Market and Sell 226 Develop, Market and Sell 232 Support 115 Support 117 Employees by regional breakdown 74.7% UK 6.9% Europe 10.5% Americas 7.9% Asia-Pacific Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 33 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Social responsibility continued Wellbeing CEO awards Victrex puts a high priority on the Recognising the efforts of our health and wellbeing of employees.
employees is important for Victrex.
Our employees Development Our business success is a reflection of the depth of talent in our global We continue to invest in the development of all our employees, workforce.
In an increasingly competitive global market, ensuring that through both an informal and formal route.
Assessment of individual we attract, motivate and retain our people remains a consistent training needs is a key element of the annual appraisal process which theme for Victrex.
Our organisational capability strategy supports us is undertaken by all employees.
This year has seen us complete to identify and develop the skills and experience we need to deliver aglobal learning needs analysis and we continue to roll out our business strategy and shape our people strategy.
This was led programmes globally across different employee groups.
bythe Chief Executive, supported by the Group Human Resources This is our tenth year of recruiting apprentices, and we have Director and the Managing Directors of each business unit.
Commitment to our apprenticeship programme continues at our Hillhouse manufacturing site in the UK, Employee breakdown with twelve apprentices currently on the apprenticeship programme.
As a company we continue to invest in appropriate skills and talent It is also the first time we have included Polymer Processing in the to support our future growth and focus on ensuring we have the Process Operations apprenticeship, which shows continued investment right capability to support delivery of our downstream strategy.
to ensure we have the capability in place to deliver our Aspart of becoming a more efficient and effective organisation downstreamstrategy.
andto provide a better platform to secure our future, we also saw For the second year running, Amy Webber, one of our engineering some business efficiencies.
apprentices, was a finalist for the BTEC Higher National Certificate Employee turnover remained stable.
Student of the Year from Blackpool and Fylde College, UK.
Our workforce continues to reflect diversity.
Approximately 79% ofour employees are male as at 30 September 2016: 601 and Wellbeing 21%female as at 30 September 2016: 155.
On our ELT, one Victrex puts a high priority on the health and wellbeing of quarter of the team is female.
In Victrex, diversity encompasses employees and promotes this in a number of ways.
Occupational differences in ethnicity, gender, language, age, sexual orientation, health and private medical services are available for all employees religion, socio-economic status, physical and mental ability, thinking inall locations.
Our focus on wellbeing services includes on-site style, experience and education.
We believe that the wide array of medical checks, provision of financial education sessions and driver perspectives that result from such diversity promotes innovation safety for company car owners and frequent travellers.
We operate an equal opportunities policy andprovide a healthy environment which will encourage good andproductive working relationships within the organisation.
12 apprentices currently on the apprenticeship programme.
34 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report As a business we continue to: 7% Voluntary employee turnover provide a clean, safe working environment 2016 2015 2014 2013 which meets all legislative requirements and 7% 7% 5% 2% 1 to provide all the necessary training support for employees to operate safely within it: Overall, 95 employees participated and, over two years, spent 1,145 hours working in localcommunities.
provide appropriate remuneration for work carried out and equal opportunities for 2 development and career advancement: Participation in employee share schemes be intolerant of any unacceptable working practices such as any form of discrimination, 3 bullying or harassment: 91% 91 9 prohibit illegal activities on our sites: and 2016 2015 2014 2013 4 91% 87% 89% 86% Note: Excludes recruitment during theyear.
promote fair, ethical and transparent business practices both within our business and in 5 dealings with externalstakeholders.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 35 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Social responsibility continued Volunteering Victrex is active in the community.
Future scientists Our partnership with Catalyst Discovery Centre helps to enthuse pupils about science.
Our partnership with the Catalyst Science Discovery Centre in Involvement Runcorn, UK, goes from strength to strength, with attendance at The Group places considerable emphasis on two-way itsbiannual Chemistry at Work events.
These events are designed communication and involving our employees in the business.
toenthuse young school pupils about science-based industries and Wehave a number of channels, both formal and informal, to keep how important they are to our everyday life.
employees informed on business news.
These include a global monthly business briefing to keep employees aware of Company Victrex has also participated in a range of activities within local performance, quarterly global staff briefings, a weekly online communities, offering apprenticeships, promoting awareness in employee news channel and, more formally, UK and regional schools and advancement of research work at universities and employee forums and union partnership meetings.
providing work experience to students of all ages at varying stages of their academic careers.
Overall, 95 employees participated and, The Company supports employee share ownership and offers the over two years, we have spent over 1,145 hours working in local opportunity to participate in share schemes.
As at 30 September communities against our 2023 target of 10,000 hours.
We took 2016, approximately 91% 2015: 87% of employees worldwide partin over 500events.
were participants in employee share schemes, principally as option holders under the Companys employee share option schemes.
Charitable giving We also sponsor pension plans for employees across most of our Donating to charity allows us, as a company, to help those groups global operations.
Details of the Groups principal pension schemes inour community who are not in a position to fund specific activities are set out in note 15 to the financial statements.
themselves as well as to support our employees in their fundraising Largely as a result of the above approaches, Victrex has voluntary activities.
This year we established a Community Investment team employee turnover on a par with many other companies.
tolook after the distribution of the charitable donations budget inthe UK, through nominations made by employees.
A similar approach is now in place for the US.
Our communities We have increased our work with local communities during 2016, A total of 58,337 2015:140,958 has been made during this ensuring that the Victrex name is synonymous with good business, year.
Nopolitical donations were made 2015: nil.
The year and helping to establish our employer brand and reputation, in turn onyearfall reflects some short-term donation programmes helping us to secure the right skills for our future development.
a clear vision and targets in line with our 2023 sustainability goals, Our employees remain active fundraisers, with many either we have made good progress in this area, developing our cycling, running or baking to raise money for charity.
We support relationships with local community projects.
this through our Community Investment teams, which we have Our main focus is to get young people interested and excited about established in the UK during 2016 and which will go live in the US science, technology and engineering.
Through being part of the in2017.
Alongside Company-led events, our employees continue Business in the Communitys Business Class programme, which toproactively support charities through volunteering their time.
matches local businesses and schools together in a three-year Employees from our Polymer Production business donated a days partnership, we have developed a strong relationship with Fleetwood work to building a dementia-friendly learning garden at a local High School in the UK.
We have also hosted work experience for year park in Lancashire.
Geoff Small, one of our homeworkers, rode the tenstudents as well as participated in the schools career events.
LondonSurrey 100-mile cycling event, raising money for Children with Cancer UK.
36 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report corporate governance 38 B oard of Directors 40 Corporate governance 51 D irectors remuneration report 65 Directors report Other statutory information 69 Statement of Directors responsibilities 70 Independent auditors report
