Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Our People Keeping our people safe is the Groups 2016 safety performance Diversity and Inclusion D&I first priority.
It is the duty of every Weir Total Incident Rate, our principal indicator, We recognise the need for our employee employee to take care of their colleagues measures lost time and recordable population to represent the communities and work towards making every Weir incidents against a factor of 200,000 hours we operate in and the Group has a facility a zero-harm workplace.
worked and in 2016 the Total Incident Rate Diversity and Inclusion Policy aimed at was 0.6. providing a work environment which is CEOs Safety Committee inclusive, where individuals are valued Leadership for this crucial part of the for their diversity and empowered to Groups performance is direct from the TIR performance reach their full potential.
Board with a clear recognition of the importance of safety among the entire 1.2 Our objective is to diversify thought in the Weir workforce.
Direct leadership has 1.0 Weir Group and provide an environment been enhanced with the introduction of where values-based inclusion prevails.
0.8 the Chief Executives Safety Committee.
The Nomination Committee also oversees 0.6 This committee will oversee safety Diversity and Inclusion initiatives.
Below 0.4 performance ensuring the Group systems are some of the actions that have been 0.2 and processes are comprehensive, taken on a Group-wide basis: 0.0 Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul 14 14 15 15 16 16 risk-based, deliverable and built on the best practice of our peers, customers In addition, 64 safety audits were A revised Weir Group Diversity and and the professional bodies.
completed, including a number of smaller Inclusion policy that uses inclusive sites audited for the first time.
The Groups language and defines a clear strategy SHE Excellence Committee average score increased by 5%.
for progress in this area.
The Safety, Health & Environment SHE A toolkit to help leaders develop D&I Excellence Committee will continue Developing our people throughout the Group.
to support the Board and will provide Motivated, engaged and effective people Recruitment and travel protocols that leadership, coordination and support for are imperative to our business.
The Group include provision for D&I.
the delivery of the Group SHE objectives depends on their knowledge, commitment All development programmes include set by the CEOs Safety Committee.
It is and hard work to be successful.
tasked by the Board to set and assess learning culture is supported by a range Philanthropy and charitable initiatives rigorous standards to improve SHE of development programmes and Weir proactively include D&I.
The key University, our online platform offering Oil & Gas promoted use of service dogs shift to a behavioural safety culture led to a range of courses to help our people at work.
a review of the SHE Roadmap which has increase their knowledge and skills.
Minerals developed an Autism at work streamlined processes and procedures to Further details of our people development programme.
allow employees at all levels to focus on programmes can be found at working more safely.
weir The Group has also committed to ensuring that by 2020 at least a third of Board and Weir Zero-Harm Behavioural Group Executive and their direct reports Safety System Weir University total training hours are female a target proposed by the In 2016 significant progress was made Hampton-Alexander Review in their 2016 8,842 in the roll-out of Weir zero harm, our 2016 report into female representation among Behavioural Safety System.
9,490 Zero-Harm programme started in 2014 2015 with Safe Start, a universal training In addition, to help build a long-term programme in the fundamentals of safety 2014 2,430 pipeline of future female leaders, across the Group.
This was completed in the Groups graduate intake was 2015 and was followed by climate surveys gender balanced.
where employees were asked for their Employee engagement views on the safety culture within the Chief Executive Officer Jon Stanton You can read more at www.
In 2016 the third strand was writes to all employees on a monthly introduced across the Group and is a basis and encourages feedback through tangible step in developing the behavioural AskJon e-mails.
The Groups intranet, safety culture where employees at all Weir Bulletin publication and team levels are trained and empowered to Town Hall style meetings are the engage in safety.
most popular forms of communication among employees with more than 80% of respondents to 2016s internal communications survey positively rating the quality of information they receive.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 47 Strategic Report Our People continued The Weir Group Safety, Health Use resources and energy efficiently, Total number of employees: and Environment SHE Charter targeting waste, emissions and pollution in our activities, in order to minimise 13,600 Our Safety, Health and the impact of our activities on our Environment vision communities.
A zero harm workplace for people and the As a minimum comply with relevant Senior management diversity environment where everyone goes home legal and other requirements.
Total Senior Management safe and healthy.
Employees: 228 This charter applies to all employees, Our guiding principles contractors, products and services, Male 86% All injuries and occupational illnesses and joint ventures under Weirs Female 14% 32 are preventable.
No business objective will take priority over health and safety.
No task is so important or urgent that it cannot be done safely.
We operate sustainably and minimise our environmental impact.
196 Our priorities Continuous reinforcement of zero harm to people and the environment.
Employees Male Deeply embedded safety culture where as at 31 December 2016 employees always act safely at and away from work.
11,907 2016 Delivery of our safety culture through felt leadership at all levels.
12,847 2015 Our actions 2014 14,317 Maintain and continuously improve the Weir SHE Management System across the organisation.
Apply Weir Standards consistently Employees Female and uniformly across the Weir as at 31 December 2016 footprint irrespective of geography or local legislation.
1,780 2016 Pursue the identification of all hazards proactively and eliminate or, if not 1,873 2015 possible, manage the risk to as low as reasonably practicable.
2,030 2014 Lead, train and motivate our people to work in a safe and responsible manner.
Manage non-conformance with Weir Group Protocols and Best Practices in a fair and consistent way.
Board diversity, by gender Consult with and promote the active participation of our people in the 22% female management of their own and others health, wellbeing and safety.
Provide the resources and skills necessary to achieve our continuous performance improvement with respect 2 female 7 male to the Environment and the health and safety of our people.
Place SHE at the heart of a whole life cycle approach to product stewardship.
Identify performance measures, set improvement targets and report performance at all levels: recognising excellent performance appropriately.
Maintain third party certification to OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 in Weir facilities and operations.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 48
