Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Ethics As a company we are committed to Code of Conduct found in breach of the Code of Conduct business integrity and high ethical All our employees operate under a Code of may be liable to disciplinary action, up to standards.
We operate under a Code Conduct, which provides a clear framework and including termination of employment of Conduct which promotes honest for decision-making in line with our values or cancellation of contract.
and ethical behaviour and our aim and behaviours.
The Code of Conduct is to ensure that our customers, promotes compliance with applicable Information on the Code of Conduct and suppliers, investors, employees, governmental laws, rules and regulations its application in the Companys supply and the communities where we and provides details on how we expect chain can be found under the Suppliers operate have the confidence to our people to conduct themselves on a and third parties section below.
trust us and our business.
It requires prompt internal reporting of any breaches, which can be Anti-bribery and corruption carried out without fear of retribution.
In 2016, the Group updated the Conflicts Following its introduction in 2011, the Code of Interest Policy.
This was revised to of Conduct was revised in 2014 and is provide clear guidance to all employees available to download from our website of the Company with regards to the in thirteen languages.
mandatory requirements for the identification, reporting and management Supporting the second edition of the Code of actual or potential conflicts of interest.
of Conduct is a mandatory e-learning In particular, it outlines what may programme.
Training is targeted at constitute a conflict and the correct employees who are deemed to have a process for disclosing any perceived potentially higher risk of exposure to bribery conflict to management.
FTSE4Good and corruption as a consequence of their The Company is a member of FTSE4Good, decision-making responsibilities with As part of our commitment to continually an equity index series that is designed regard to third parties, including customers, monitoring and improving anti-bribery and to facilitate investment in companies suppliers and sales agents.
This includes corruption practices within the company, that meet globally recognised corporate the Senior Management Group, as well our Internal Audit department undertake responsibility standards.
Companies in as sales and marketing, purchasing and anti-bribery and corruption reviews.
They the FTSE4Good Index Series have met finance employees within certain sectors maintain a cyclical, risk based plan with stringent environmental, social and of the Companys operations.
seven specific anti-bribery and corruption governance criteria.
reviews undertaken during 2016 in addition Since the launch of the second edition of to our standard internal audit programme the Code of Conduct in 2014, in excess of both full and limited scope reviews.
of 4,000 employees have completed From this work there were no indicators the anti-bribery and corruption online of any bribery or corruption found.
compliance training which accompanies it.
All new employees who are deemed The Group, as an integral member of the to fall into the higher risk category must Transparency International UKs Business also undertake the training as part of their Integrity Forum, continues to work with induction.
After completion of the training, Transparency International, sharing best all participants are asked to complete a practice and benchmarking our compliance compliance statement to confirm that they procedures with other similar sized Business Integrity Forum Member Transparency International have read, understood and comply with organisations within our sector.
The Company is a member of Transparency the Code of Conduct in their work for Weir.
International UKs Business Integrity Market Abuse Regulation Forum, the UKs leading anti-corruption The Code of Conduct is also reinforced The Company reviewed and updated its forum for businesses in all sectors.
All through various means of communication existing governance framework in 2016 to members sign up to a set of principles and with our employees, such as Town Hall ensure compliance with the Market Abuse are dedicated to ensuring their operations meetings, conferences, training courses Regulation MAR, which came into effect and business dealings are corruption free.
and our 100 day integration plan for new on 3 July 2016.
The measures which exist acquisitions.
During 2016, face to face to ensure compliance with MAR include: training was provided by the Weir Legal team to employees of various operating Disclosure Committee: A Disclosure companies worldwide including, Weir Committee was established to ensure Trio USA, Weir Trio China, Weir Minerals that a framework of robust controls Europe, Weir Minerals Africa, Weir and procedures is in place in relation Gabbioneta and Weir Solutions Dubai.
to the control of inside information.
This training programme will continue The Disclosure Committee is a into 2017.
The Code of Conduct applies sub-committee of the Board.
to everyone who is employed by the Weir Group and compliance is of the utmost Share Dealing Code: The Companys importance.
As a company, we not only existing Share Dealing Policy has been stress the importance of complying with reviewed and updated to ensure the Code of Conduct but also encourage compliance with MAR.
our employees to report any concerns or apparent breaches they may have.
Anyone The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 49 Strategic Report Ethics continued Inside Information Policy: The employment of children in any of its updating existing policies and procedures, Companys Inside Information Policy businesses and no forced, bonded or to ensure compliance with the legislation.
has been updated to comply with the involuntary prison labour is permitted.
Suppliers and third parties We will not exploit anyone, wherever in the We source raw materials, components and Training Workshops: Training on world we are working.
We will respect the services across the globe.
Our suppliers the requirements of MAR and the human rights of all those working for or with play a critical role in our business and our updated Share Dealing Code and us, and of the people in the communities relationships with them are based on Inside Information Policy was where we operate.
We will not do business achieving best performance, product, delivered to Group employees.
with companies, organisations or individuals delivery, service and total cost in an ethical that we believe are not working to and sustainable manner.
Embracing a Gender Pay Gap Reporting acceptable human rights standards.
closer relationship with our key suppliers The Company supports the steps being is fundamental to our Value Chain taken by the Government to increase We expect employees to maintain the Excellence initiative.
gender diversity across senior roles and on highest standards of conformity with company boards, including the proposed these principles and their adoption, and The Group recognises that its responsibilities introduction of the The Equality Act 2010 adherence is contained within Weirs Code extend to our supply chain.
We have a Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations of Conduct.
There were no human rights Supply Chain Policy which sets out the 2017.
The regulations are expected to violations reported through the Ethics minimum standards we expect our come into force by April 2017, with Hotline during 2016. suppliers to abide by with respect to: publication of the first gender pay gap report no later than April 2018.
Modern Slavery Act how they treat their workforce: Following an extensive review of our legal and regulatory compliance: The Company will conduct a review of pay existing policies and practices in light of the health and safety: structures to quantify any gaps, consider introduction of the Modern Slavery Act, the business ethics: and causes and address any issues which Company has prepared a Modern Slavery environmental standards.
weir sustainability ethics which details the steps we are Weir is a member of the UK Government Human rights taking to ensure that slavery and human sponsored Prompt Payment Code, which As part of its human rights policy, which trafficking do not take place in any of our is a scheme designed to support on time can be found on the Companys website supply chains or in any part of the business.
payment to small and medium sized at www.
weir sustainability policies, suppliers SMEs.
the Group has adopted a series of human To meet the requirements of the new rights principles across all of its businesses.
legislation, we have updated our Human In addition, our Code of Conduct is issued These principles relate to anti-discriminatory Rights Policy to specifically refer to the to many of our key suppliers.
Assessments attitudes and respect for ethical values: Modern Slavery Act.
The Company already are undertaken with regard to compliance employee rights, which include health has a number of measures in place to with Group standards as part of the vetting and safety, living wages, working hours, protect human rights including the Code process for new suppliers.
freedom of association and the right to of Conduct, Weir Supply Chain Policy, collective bargaining: and prohibition of Weir SHE Standards and a programme We also audit our key suppliers regularly child labour.
of supplier audits and reviews.
A training to assess ongoing compliance with our programme is also being developed for various policies and standards used By promoting sound ethical values and procurement to increase awareness and globally.
Wherever possible, we work human rights principles, Weir aims to be compliance with the Modern Slavery Act with our suppliers to support them to a business with which people are proud and Weirs responsibilities.
The Weir Group Human Rights Policy expresses the organisations The General Data The Group is committed to working only commitment to promoting and upholding Protection Regulation with third parties, including customers, the common standard of achievement for The new General Data Protection Regulation sub-contractors, suppliers and joint venture all people and all nations, as endorsed by GDPR, which is aimed at providing a and strategic alliance partners, whose the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
uniform regime for personal data processing business ethics and behaviours are Other guiding principles include those throughout the European Union, will apply consistent with our own Code of Conduct.
of the Conventions of the International from 25 May 2018.
The GDPR introduces Labour Organisation and the United Nations various new approaches to data protection Convention on the Rights of the Child.
law, including increased penalties for These manifest themselves in Weirs non-compliance and increased enforcement anti-discriminatory attitudes and respect powers for data protection authorities.
for ethical values, providing our people with a safe and healthy working environment and We are reviewing our current data protection fairness in employment terms.
For example, strategy and compliance methods in light of national living wage is applied and working these future requirements.
Privacy and data hours determined in accordance with security issues are regularly reported on in applicable laws, as is the recognition and management meetings.
Once the practical non-discrimination of rights of association in effects of the new regulation are more collective bargaining.
In addition, the Group certain, we will spend time embedding has a zero tolerance policy towards the privacy practices through training and The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 50 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Sustainability in action M O D ER N S L AV ER Y A C T S TAT EMEN T This statement is made pursuant to section Weir recognises that its responsibilities undertaken a geographical risk assessment 54 1 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 for the extend to our supply chain, and has always of our supply chain.
Having undertaken a financial year ending 31 December 2016. aimed to maintain a supply chain process geographical risk assessment of our supply which sets out the minimum standards chain, we have identified four categories of Prohibition of Modern Slavery we expect our suppliers to abide by in risk extreme, high, medium and low based Modern slavery is a crime and a fundamental connection with: on territories we operate in and using the violation of human rights.
It is constituted in how they treat their workforce: Global Slavery Index 2016. the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 the Act by legal and regulatory compliance: the offences of slavery, servitude and forced health and safety: We aim to have completed due diligence or compulsory labour: and human trafficking.
business ethics: and on first tier suppliers in key extreme risk Weirs aim is to eradicate the use of forced, environmental standards.
territories identified in the Global Slavery compulsory or trafficked labour, or anyone Index 2016 and estimate that this will be held in slavery or servitude, whether adults or Policies complete by December 2017.
Thereafter children, in all Weir companies.
We expect the Weir is committed to ensuring that we are we will complete due diligence on high same high standards from all our contractors, not complicit in any human rights violation risk territories and then medium and low suppliers and other business partners and hold our partners and suppliers to risk territories.
regardless of where they are located.
Weir expect all suppliers to comply with or exceed the Within each location, our planned activities in Compliance following requirements: relation to the Act include but are not limited We already expect everyone with whom we no forced, bonded or involuntary prison to: updating supplier contracts: distributing deal, including employees, contractors and labour will be used: our updated supplier policies: asking suppliers suppliers to maintain the highest standards no children are to be employed by our to agree to and sign Weirs updated Code in conformity with these principles.
The suppliers, consistent with the United of Conduct acknowledgement letters: and prevention, detection and reporting of human Nations Convention on the Rights of updating our audit documents both internal rights violations in any part of our business or the Child: and and external to contain expectations relating supply chains is the responsibility of all those employees of our suppliers shall be paid to the Act.
working for us or under our control.
wages for standard working hours that meet or exceed national minimum For any supplier who is non-compliant with About The Weir Group PLC requirements.
our policies, we expect to terminate any Founded in 1871, The Weir Group PLC is involvement with that supplier unless conditions based in Glasgow, Scotland and is one of Our existing Code of Conduct and Human are rapidly improved and compliance is met, the worlds leading engineering businesses.
Rights Policy currently sets out the minimum regardless of whether it is a first tier supplier or Weir designs, manufactures and services standards that we expect of our employees further down our supply chain.
If any individual, innovative solutions which make our minerals, and our supply chain.
We expect our supplier, Non-Governmental Organisation or oil and gas and power customers more employees and suppliers to comply with other organisation has evidence of modern efficient.
This is recognised in the global all applicable laws, including any local laws.
slavery in Weirs operations, we encourage leadership positions we have developed This includes complying with applicable them to contact the Weir Ethics Hotline.
laws in relation to modern slavery and Reports will be investigated and appropriate human trafficking.
Weir aims to be a partner of choice to our customers with a worldwide network The Weir Human Rights Policy has been Compliance & Training of around 214 manufacturing facilities updated to reflect a specific reference to the Weir is committed to training its employees and service centres.
The business has a Act and the offences constituted by the Act.
As part of our regular presence in more than 70 countries, with training schedules globally we intend to over 13,600 people around the world working Other Weir policies shall be updated to incorporate updated ethics training in our in three divisions: Minerals: Oil & Gas: and incorporate specific reference to the Act and programme to ensure our staff are aware of Flow Control.
shall be rolled out across the Weir Group.
the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act These include: and our related policies.
Weirs expectation Supply Chain Code of Conduct: and aim is to not tolerate any business that Weir has always been committed to doing Supplier Contract plus terms and does not respect basic human rights.
business at all times in an ethical and conditions templates: and transparent manner with the highest Supply Chain Policy & Supplier This statement has been approved by the standards of integrity.
board of directors of The Weir Group PLC.
As an engineering company, we source raw Due diligence Signed for and on behalf of The Weir materials, components and services across Many of Weirs suppliers have already been Group PLC the globe and recognise that this may involve audited by Weir personnel and have gone sensitive countries and industries.
Our through a formal procurement process to suppliers play a critical role in our business, minimise Weirs overall supply chain risk.
and our relationships with them are based on achieving best performance, product, As part of Weirs ongoing initiatives to try and delivery, service and total cost in an ethical ensure that we prevent any bonded, forced or and sustainable manner.
involuntary labour or other kinds of modern Jon Stanton slavery or human trafficking we have Chief Executive Officer The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 51 Strategic Report Ethics continued External sales agents Reporting issues The Group engages a number of external The Group encourages our people to sales agents across the globe to act on discuss any ethical concerns they may its behalf in locations where it does not have with local management or the legal have a permanent sales presence, or in department.
In addition, the Weir Ethics regard to specific projects.
The Group has Hotline, an independent and confidential a Commercial Agent & Distributor Manual telephone helpline and online reporting which sets out the Group requirements system, is available for our employees, with regard to appointing and reappointing partners and third parties to call or email agents, as well as the ongoing monitoring with any concerns that they have requirements.
Due diligence is performed concerning unethical behaviour.
Calls to prior to all appointments and the helpline are free and lines are open 24 reappointments and is overseen by the hours a day, seven days a week.
The standard Weir can be made in a wide range of languages, contract must be used unless the legal reflecting our global footprint.
Online department has agreed modifications, reporting remains the most common form but the terms of the agreements always of reporting matters, with 72% of reports include stipulation that agents must comply being made in this way, but we have seen with the Code of Conduct.
The agents are an increase in the number of whistleblowing required to confirm in writing their concerns being made by email, with 16% of compliance with the Code of Conduct.
In 2015, the Weir Group became a During 2016, 50 reports were submitted member of TRACE International.
TRACE via the Weir Ethics Hotline with each report International is a non-profit business being fully investigated.
Details of the association that pools resources to submission methods of the reports and provide members with anti-bribery their respective geographic location can be compliance support.
Whilst the majority of reports have continued to utilise these tools to were from employees, the service was undertake additional due diligence and also utilised by persons connected to compliance checks on our overseas employees and our suppliers.
Submission method Gifts and hospitality Although in some markets gifts and hospitality are a prevalent and fundamental Email 2% 2% part of business transactions, such practices Hotline Phone 16% can also leave an organisation vulnerable Hotline Web to accusations of bribery or corruption.
To Phone 8% ensure that all of our employees operate Letter ethically, the Group has a Gifts Policy and a Hospitality Policy.
Both of these were updated during 2016 to address the use of gift certificates, the giving of Christmas or national holiday gifts and to provide greater 72% clarity on the difference between gifts and sponsorship.
The revised policies received Group Executive approval in January 2016 and were subsequently circulated Submissions by country throughout the Company.
Employees should only give or receive USA 32% gifts or hospitality for business if they Russia 14% are reasonable and if they could not Australia 8% 2% 2% 2% improperly influence a business decision.
2% China 8% 2% 2% All gifts and hospitality above a minimum South Africa 6% 4% 32% threshold detailed in the policies must be UAE 6% 4% pre-approved using an online gifts and UK 6% 6% hospitality register.
Our Internal Audit team Canada 4% assess compliance with the Groups gifts India 4% 6% and hospitality policies during audit visits Azerbaijan 2% 6% and desktop reviews.
Summary reports Brazil 2% 14% of the register are shared with senior 8% Iraq 2% 8% management on a monthly basis.
Peru 2% Saudi Arabia 2% Zambia 2% The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 52 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Our Communities Weir is a global business which operates The Group supports the health of its The Group continues to support The in over 70 countries around the world.
employees, their families and communities Arkwright Scholarships Trust following We strive to make a positive impact in through various programmes and initiatives, initial engagement in 2012.
Partnering with the communities in which we operate.
which are often run in partnership with local organisations in industry and professional We do this through employment service providers.
engineering institutions, the programme opportunities, the payment of taxes identifies and nurtures high-potential and philanthropic efforts.
Weir is a 146 year old engineering students in UK schools, encouraging them company, and our commitment to training to pursue engineering or technical design We set clear expectations for how each of is as strong in the 21st century as it was in at university or through a higher-level our businesses should interact and engage the 19th.
We are dedicated to developing apprenticeship.
In 2016, the two scholars with people and other organisations.
engineering excellence and we were the who were recruited in 2015 undertook Wherever we operate in the world, first company in Scotland to set up an a five day summer placement in our we aim to: apprentice school.
Weir is a founding main manufacturing facility in Marseille, member of the Institute of Primary and France.
We were delighted to welcome enhance the local community by running Secondary Engineers, an institution which another two scholars onto the programme our operations safely, ethically and seeks to promote science, technology, at an awards ceremony in Edinburgh in responsibly: engineering and mathematics subjects October 2016. respect the communities we operate in: to school children of all ages in the UK.
and In 2016, the Group provided 20,000 invest in the communities for the Weir provides experience and training to to Primary Engineer, a not-for-profit long-term mutual benefit of the develop the next generation of engineers.
organisation which aims to encourage community and Weir.
Although our focus is on engineering, young people to consider careers in we also provide work placements and science, technology, engineering and We strive to build close relationships in internships across all sectors.
Our mathematics STEM related professions our communities by keeping local people placements give young people from around by offering primary schools a way to informed about projects which might affect the world the opportunity to experience deliver practical mathematics and science them.
If issues arise, we listen and do our working for a global business.
to design and make activities.
The class best to help to find a solution.
Our Ethics projects are aimed at each year group, Hotline is available for any individual to use Charitable giving mapped to the curriculum and designed if they wish to raise concerns about ethical In 2016, the total amount of charitable to engage and inspire.
Programmes and compliance related conduct involving donations made by Group companies was include teacher training, interactive and any Weir Group company.
We do not paper-based resources, and regional and on the Ethics Hotline can be found on make any political donations.
All projects are page 52. donations include cash and non-cash items linked to practicing engineers to provide such as services, materials, employee time a real-world context.
In addition to approaching community and use of corporate facilities.
relations in an open and transparent The Group supports the health of manner, we seek to support charitable its employees, their families and organisations through donations communities through various programmes Charitable donations and volunteering.
and initiatives, which are often run in partnership with local service providers.
We recognise that as an organisation Community Please see the case study on the with a global reach, our influence is not Education 20% Sachibondu Health Centre on page 54. insignificant, particularly in developing Health 26% countries.
Our charitable and philanthropic work focuses on the key priorities of improving the health and education of our employees and the local community.
We recognise that contributing to these important areas can have an enduring positive effect on the local area.
54% In addition to supporting charitable organisations, Weir contributes to local In 2016 the Group continued to support communities by being a source of Newlands Junior College which is a employment, education and training, vocational school that provides career through the payment of taxes and, in many opportunities to young people who have instances, the contribution to local supply become disengaged with the traditional chains.
This can make a substantial positive education system.
The College provides contribution to the communities in which vocational training and helps young people we operate.
to develop and reach their potential.
The Group donated 100,000 to Newlands Junior College in 2016.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 53 Strategic Report Our Communities continued Employee activities We are very proud of the charitable work that our people undertake.
Our businesses operate their own policies for supporting these, whether by matching donations, providing support or equipment or by allowing employees to participate in charitable activities during working hours.
During 2016, our employees undertook many charitable projects.
A small selection of these projects are highlighted below.
Fort McMurray Toy Drive In 2016 wildfires ravaged Fort McMurray, resulting in many families losing their homes and all of their possessions.
In December 2016 the Weir Minerals Canada Fort McMurray facility team participated in the community annual toy and food drive.
Sustainability in action $1,000 was donated by Weir Minerals and $600 was pooled together by the Fort McMurray facility team employees.
F U ND IN G BR I G H T ER Approximately 40 toys were purchased and donated.
In addition, $600 in food and cash was donated to the local foodbank in F UTU R E S A Z AMBIAN Fort McMurray.
HE A LT H C A R E PRO J E C T Weir Minerals Canada Elliot Lake Facility In December 2016 a team from our Elliot Lake facility, in conjunction with the local Founded over 45 years ago, health risks.
Effective day light fire department, participated in the 26th Sachibondu was set up as a Rural strategies can also reduce the Annual Food Drive.
The team visited 200 Health Centre near Mwinilunga, reliance on electricity, which is often houses and collected enough food to fill an a remote and rural region of North inaccessible, and helps provide more entire container of the Weir Minerals truck.
West Zambia on the Democratic enjoyable and usable spaces.
The drive proceeds totalled $45,000 in Republic of Congo border.
Each food and $2,300 in cash donations.
year thousands of patients come Working closely with the staff and to the Health Centre where they selected patients at Sachibondu, the Weir Valves and Controls UK Limited are met by a small team of OrkidStudio charity, with financial Sport Relief dedicated nurses and midwives.
support from Weir, have developed a Employees from Weir Valves and Controls masterplan and development strategy UK in Elland raised 400 $566 for Sport With few good alternative options, for the Centre, incorporating patient Relief a UK based charity which raises most patients travel remarkably long wards, clinical and diagnostic testing money to help vulnerable people both distances to reach Sachibondu, some facilities, a specialist infectious in the UK and in the worlds poorest up to ten days from within Zambia or diseases unit, operating theatre countries.
The staff in Elland promoted neighbouring Angola and DRC.
a healthier lifestyle by walking their Weir Mile a mile-long-route mapped The Centre provides a wide range The key aim in redeveloping the around the Elland facility, taking part in of general health care including Centre has been to achieve an the company sports quiz and sweepstake.
tuberculosis, malaria and HIV clinics, upgrade status with the Ministry The days events promoted health and and also works hard to increase of Health to a Hospital higher level wellbeing, as well as boosting morale awareness, testing and education than a Rural Health Centre.
With and camaraderie within the Weir facility.
in order to reduce the number of this, the Government will provide It showcased the fun, generosity and new infections.
fully trained doctors, more staff creativity of all employees and brought and better resources, whilst the young and old together, in what was Better design and innovative facilities themselves will be able to a successful day for both Weir and approaches to basic materials and accommodate significantly increased Sports Relief.
local building methods can make patient numbers and undertake a huge impact on the health and critical surgery and treatments.
By increasing internal air-change rates passively and Employing around 120 people, the introducing effective and controllable reconstruction project began in 2016 natural ventilation, we can reduce and is due to be completed in 2017.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 54
