Strategic Report Sustainability in Action PE O PL E Caring for and developing our colleagues is crucial to the sustainable success of our Group.
Read more on our People agenda from page 47.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 16 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Case Study: Case Study: K EEPING OUR DELI V ERING OUR PEOPLE SA FE DUT Y OF CA RE Our first priority is to keep our people safe and make progress To ensure our people who are travelling or working outside to achieving our ambition of becoming a zero-harm workplace.
of their home country remain healthy and safe at all times, we have introduced a system that offers travel advice before, To achieve that aim, our new Safety Charter prioritises during and after any trip is made.
Its guiding principles are: Safety is everyones responsibility.
Its aim is to ensure that risks are managed appropriately with All injuries and occupational illnesses are preventable.
travellers adequately prepared from safety, security and No business objective will take priority over safety.
The assessment includes a travel risk No task is so important or urgent that it cannot be rating system for every country and many of the major cities done safely.
All travellers to regions deemed to be potentially We operate sustainably and minimise our higher risk are required to undertake security training in environmental impact.
The Charter applies to all employees, contractors, The system provides our travelling population with products and services, and joint ventures under reassurance that wherever they are going and whatever Weirs operational control.
they may encounter there is a comprehensive system to support them around the world.
Case Study: Case Study: A MORE D E V EL O PI N G DI V ERSE W EIR OUR PEOPLE As a global company we recognise the benefits that a diverse The Weir MBA programme is designed to give employees workforce can bring and we have a strong commitment the opportunity to broaden their academic knowledge to attracting, retaining and developing employees with and then apply those insights to the benefit of our different backgrounds, knowledge, experience and businesses and customers.
abilities and we are committed to leading our sector in improving diversity.
Hosted by the University of Strathclyde in Scotland, the Weir MBA offers our people the opportunity to complete a Master Following the 2016 report of the Hampton-Alexander Review of Business Administration qualification with one of the UKs on improving gender balance in FTSE companies, we have leading business schools.
committed to ensuring a third of Board, Group Executive and their direct reports are female by 2020.
The current levels The first group of 16 graduates, drawn from Weir operations for the Board, Group Executive and direct reports are 22%, from several different countries, were awarded their degrees 14% and 20% respectively.
It is a significant achievement to successfully complete an MBA degree while also working full-time and To help encourage a more diverse workforce throughout our achieving a work-life balance.
business, we have developed a toolkit to help leaders improve diversity and inclusion across our operations.
This allows our Seven of the Weir graduates passed with distinctions businesses to audit their current diversity status, gives and nine gained merits.
guidance on measures and metrics to track progress and allows our operations to establish their maturity as the Group seeks to become a more diverse and inclusive organisation.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Strategic Report Sustainability in Action continued C C U U S S T T O O ME ME R R S S Our customers are our most important stakeholders and we work in partnership with them to provide solutions that sustainably deliver quality and efficiency wherever and whenever they need us.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 18 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Case Study: Case Study: fide L I GH T I N G CAP TURING VALUABLE OUR CUSTOMERS AF T E R M AR KE T Throughout the oil and gas downturn the Group continued O PP O R T U NI T I E S to invest in research and development to ensure it fully benefits as markets recover.
Weirs technology leadership has helped the Minerals division become a leading provider of slurry processing pumps to Engineers in the Oil & Gas division, the global leader in frack global mining markets.
Through a system of trials against pump markets, worked closely with customers to develop and competitor products, the division demonstrates the long-term test our next generation frack pump.
The SPM QEM 3000 benefits of using the best technology to improve productivity is the industrys first continuous duty pump responding to and lower customers total cost of ownership.
customer demands for efficient solutions that meet demands for more intensive hydraulic fracturing.
The Kanmantoo Copper Mine is located in the Adelaide Hills, one of South Australias most under-explored regions.
Canyon Technical Services were the first customers to Kanmantoo had two Weir Minerals Warman slurry pumps in trial the new pump.
James Rukin, divisional manager, operation but they were using spare parts from competitors pumping services for Canyon said: We ran this pump and achieving a wear-life of only 300-800 hours, leading to harder than any in our fleet.
the need for ten pump rebuilds per year.
Since putting the unit in service, weve experienced After discussing the challenge with the mine, our engineers first-hand the reliability, ruggedness, and efficiency we offered the customer a 12 month trial of the Warman MCU were promised by Weir.
The SPM QEM 3000 delivers 250 pump with original equipment spare parts.
The trial pump on value, and we have made the strategic decision to delivered 2,5004,000 operational hours and reduced the add 11 units to our fleet.
number of pump rebuilds per year from ten to three, reducing downtime and freeing up labour for other tasks.
Case Study: Case Study: HELPING ACHIE V E HEL PI N G A WORLD-RECORD CUSTOMERS MEE T PER F O R M A N C E THEIR OBJEC TI V ES EDF Energy is a valued customer of Weirs Flow Control The Groups investment in the United Arab Emirates first division and its Heysham 2 Nuclear Power Station in the UK wellhead manufacturing facility was rewarded with a US$12m recently beat the world record for continuous power contract with Khuff Trading and Contracting, representatives generation, which previously stood at 940 days.
of Kuwait Oil Company KOC.
The agreement will see the Weir Oil & Gas division provide its Seaboard wellheads.
The achievement, which helped power thousands of homes throughout the country, was only possible due Weirs state of the art facilities in the region have been to precise coordination, scenario planning, good positively received by customers looking to reduce communication and team trust.
response times for crucial solutions such as wellheads.
Heysham 2 was built in 1980 and is reaching a key stage in In addition to a manufacturing facility for an entire suite the design life as EDF plans to extend its working life to 2030. of equipment for the upstream and downstream markets, Weir Flow Control engineers are helping achieve this by Weir provides operators in the region with operations and ensuring more than 500 valves on site operate as designed maintenance integrated services contracts.
The scale of the and unplanned outages and costly risks are prevented.
Groups resources in the region allows us to effectively provide solutions to companies such as KOC.
In 2016, the Dubai facility secured a total of 18m in wellhead orders.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 19 Strategic Report Sustainability in Action continued T E CH NO L OG Y The Groups global leadership positions are based on our advanced technology.
The combination of close customer relationships, investment in R&D and deep applications engineering knowledge, mean we are able to drive the development of new technologies and capabilities that lead our markets.
Read more about our Technology agenda from page 57.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 20 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Case Study: Case Study: OUR MOST M A X IM I S IN G A DVA NCED CRUSHER R EL I A BI L I T Y The acquisition of Trio Engineered Products in 2014 The Flow Control division developed a new pump for mid and strengthened the Groups position in comminution, the downstream oil and gas applications.
The new Roto-Jet process of crushing and screening rock and aggregates RO-FT meets the requirements of the latest API 610 for mining and construction markets.
standards and helps make customer assets more productive and efficient.
2016 saw the launch of Weirs most advanced cone crusher, the TP 900 which includes features such as long-life bearings, The new pump has been specifically designed to achieve a integrated hydraulics for lubrication and setting adjustment broad operating range without generating damaging hydraulic and an automatic control system.
These attributes result in improved mechanical seal and bearing life to maximise The TP 900 was developed over a 12-month period with Trio Mean Time Between Failure, and decrease operational engineers working in close collaboration with colleagues and maintenance costs, which make the Roto-Jet across The Weir Group to use our advanced materials, the most cost effective choice for low-flow manufacturing and service expertise to improve service high head process applications.
life and lower total operating costs.
Case Study: Case Study: A NE W E-COMMERCE O PEN P L A T F O R M I N NO V A T ION The Flow Control division completed the initial launch of a Open Innovation is a culture and set of processes that new e-commerce platform that is designed to make it easier encourages both external and internal sources of creativity for customers to conduct business with Weir.
to be explored when tackling a problem or challenge.
Through Open Innovation, the Group is employing a The portal was built to enable fast, simple and secure structured approach to continuously improve our purchasing of spares, and is linked to specific installed valves culture of innovation.
owned by each customer facility: harnessing the power of market data to offer an efficient way for customers to buy the A number of technology challenges have been advertised to a correct parts directly.
Spares associated with four brands: community of more than 2 million external innovators through Batley, Blakeborough, Hopkinsons, and Sarasin-RSBD, an online platform.
Quarterly internal challenge competitions are now searchable by serial, tag or part number.
also take place to empower employees to solve problems and identify improvement opportunities across the Group.
The Looking ahead, Flow Controls strategy will focus on offering first internal competition proposed a new way to streamline the solution to more customers and appropriate businesses manufacturing processes in Malaysia that reduced one as the platform develops in 2017. process from 7 hours to just 5 minutes.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 21 Strategic Report Sustainability in Action continued P E RF O RM A N C E Strong execution is key to the successful delivery of any strategy.
We aim to deliver excellence for all our stakeholders through strong leadership, accountability and a lean mindset.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 22 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Case Study: Case Study: A LE A N EF F I C I EN T MI ND S E T P A R T NERS HI P S The Groups lean mindset includes regular value chain The Group values strong relationships with our suppliers both improvement initiatives across our businesses.
One of the benefits of Weirs scale, that included more than 90 projects that reduced inventory with operations in more than 70 countries, is our ability to form and improved on-time delivery.
partnerships with suppliers across the world.
At Weir Seaboard, which provides Pressure Control solutions In 2016, this included consolidating mobile phone to Oil & Gas customers, capability was increased through network providers in North America and card providers in-house training and segmentation of supply chain that across the world.
contributed to improved customer response times and a significant reduction in gross inventory.
A new Group travel policy was implemented that aims to increase efficiency and be fully integrated with our In Weir Minerals Africa, improved sales and operations improved travel safety provision.
planning reduced customer lead times by up to 50% in some product categories.
At Weir Valves and Control USA a lean These measures contributed to the Group reducing its programme reduced quotation times which will help the procurement spending by 48m.
Case Study: Case Study: A CCO U N T A B L E DOING BUSINESS L E A D ERS HI P THE RIGHT WAY Our leaders are given significant responsibility for the profit and As a Company we are committed to business integrity and high loss of their business while being supported by the wider ethical standards.
We operate under a Code of Conduct which Group to help achieve our collective strategic aims.
promotes honest and ethical behaviour and our aim is to ensure that our customers, suppliers, investors, employees and the That culture of accountability is supported by the Groups communities in which we operate have the confidence to training and development programmes that include the Weir trust us and our business.
It is designed to deliver continuous improvement in our leadership capability focused on our During 2016, face-to-face training was undertaken by the strategic priorities of People, Customers, Technology Weir legal team with employees of operating companies and Performance.
worldwide, including in the USA, China, Europe and Africa, Europe and the Middle East.
In addition, the Weir Business Management Programme, run in conjunction with the University of Strathclyde Business School, We will continue to promote our Code of Conduct and carry out puts in place a contextualised executive education programme the appropriate training and due diligence in 2017.
Further that provides our leaders with the required management skills details on the Groups Ethics policies can be found on page 49. and knowledge to succeed within the Group.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 23
