William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 64 Report of the Corporate Responsibility Committee The Corporate Responsibility CR Committee continued its focus on monitoring regulatory and industry developments, relationships with key regulators and with government authorities during 2016.
This helped to support William Hills commitment to responsible gambling, its wider duties to the community and its responsibilities to all employees.
Ashley Highfield Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee During the year the CR Committee The Committee also receives a briefing, at Membership and meetings exercised its authority to provide least annually, from an external specialist The following is the current membership of comprehensive oversight in respect consultant in respect of health and safety the CR Committee: of compliance against the Gambling arrangements, primarily focused on the Commissions key licensing objectives: Retail operations in the UK.
The Committee Director met on four occasions during 2016 and Ashley Highfield, Chairman to prevent gambling from being a source details of attendance at Committee of crime or disorder, being associated Gareth Davis meetings can be found on page 54. with crime or disorder, or being used to Sir Roy Gardner support crime: Philip Bowcock with effect from his CR Committee remit to ensure that gambling is conducted in a appointment as Interim CEO A full copy of the terms of reference for the fair and open way: and Georgina Harvey Committee can be obtained via the website to protect children and other vulnerable David Lowden at www.
com or by request to persons from being harmed or exploited the Company Secretary.
The Committees Imelda Walsh by gambling.
principal responsibilities are to: Mark Brooker The Committee also provided oversight with effect from 3 April 2017 review CR policies and practices for and challenge in a number of other the Group and set new CR policies areas related to William Hills corporate John OReilly as appropriate: with effect from 2 January 2017 responsibility programme, as described in this Committee report and in the Corporate review CR performance across a range of Robin Terrell performance metrics: Responsibility Review on pages 32 to 39. with effect from 2 January 2017 ensure the business operates in a Philip Bowcock, Interim CEO, is the sustainable way: executive director responsible for CR.
advise the Board on environmental, He is supported by various members social and ethical matters: of senior management throughout the monitor CR risks as part of the Groups business on the day-to-day management overall risk management framework: of CR-related issues.
The Group Director of and Corporate Affairs, David Steele, provides review and approve the annual CR effective co-ordination of CR activities at report within this document.
Group Executive level and throughout the Group, which helps to ensure effective and consistent consideration of CR issues Main activities during 2016 and reporting.
This approach also enables The calendar of Committee activities a flow of high-quality information to the below provides an overview of the key CR Committee.
The Company Secretary areas of specific focus for the Committee acts as secretary to the Committee.
in 2016, and further information regarding The CR Committee meetings are regularly key industry issues, and how William Hill attended by relevant members of the is responding, are included in the specific Group Executive and by various managers, review of CR matters on pages 32 to 39 of so that informed presentations are made the Strategic Report.
by individuals responsible for key areas such as human resources, health and safety, security and regulation.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 65 Governance The Committee regularly reviews the The Committee also has standing 2016 calendar of relationship with its Primary Authority for agenda items covering Health and Safety Financial CRCommitteeactivity health and safety across the Retail estate statements performance and arrangements, and of LBOs.
The Committee also formally January 2016 regulatory compliance which are reviewed endorses the objectives which are set at each meeting.
Previous actions arising Update on revised Employee annually across key areas of health and are followed-up at each meeting to ensure Engagement Programme safety and staff welfare.
The business met that they are completed.
Regulatory compliance initiatives the objectives set for 2016 and is in the process of agreeing objectives for 2017. Review in respect of Approach to core remit Gambling Commission Annual The Committee also discussed Assurance Statement CR Committee agendas include ongoing developments in several other areas and in reviews to ensure good oversight in key Review of Contractor Competency particular the Committee: areas and to measure progress on areas Review of corporate responsibility reviewed a new requirement to submit within the Committees remit, including: key performance indicators via a an Annual Assurance Statement to the CR dashboard health and safety: Gambling Commission.
The Committee Extended Lone Working update community activity, charitable donations reviewed a draft of the Statement prior to submission: and related activity: Update on Info Exchange database collation of key health and safety and issues in relation to employees, including reviewed the enhanced Employee related data employee recognition, engagement Engagement programme developed and wellbeing: during 2016: and Security review security: confirmed the Groups approach to the July 2016 implementation of the Modern Slavery compliance and interactions with Security update Act 2015, which involved a Groupregulatory authorities: wide supply chain risk assessment.
Employee Engagement an overview on key CR performance and Programme update The Committee approved, on behalf of trends.
These are primarily captured and the Board, a Transparency Statement, Compliance Review including reflected in a CR dashboard, which is which will be made available via the Overseas Regulatory updates updated regularly: Group website www.
Review of corporate responsibility progress being made on the introduction key performance indicators via a of algorithms for account-based Ashley Highfield CR dashboard Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee games machine players and the use of Good Neighbour Scheme review behavioural science analytics to help further reduce the incidence of problem Grey Car Fleet review gambling: and Health & Safety Review in the Retail corporate reputation amongst key business unit stakeholders, and improving the Extended Lone Working update effectiveness of the Companys Discussion and review of engagement with all stakeholders.
energy management Management continued to refine the Community Report Groups approach to CR matters, and updated related policies and procedures October 2016 within the business to ensure they Security update remain relevant.
Performance metrics Employee Engagement Update are used where appropriate to measure Compliance Review performance on an ongoing basis.
For example, during 2016 the Committee Political and Regulatory presentation reviewed performance metrics in respect and discussion with Portland of contractor competence, security, Communications external adviser fraud, health and safety and regulatory Update on Gaming Controls and compliance in LBOs.
Player Protection Annual Assurance Statement review December 2016 Triennial Review Status Update Annual Health & Safety Year End Review Modern Slavery Act Preparations Extended Lone Working Update Community update
