32 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility Leading responsible gambling Our approach to responsibility is core to how weoperate as a business and focuses on three keyareas: our customers, our colleagues and our community contribution.
We have also applied a significant focus Importantly we continue to take a Overview to local communities where we operate responsible approach towards our Throughout 2016 we have continued through our community commitment, colleagues, introducing the National Living to promote responsible gambling to Close to HOME, and other initiatives to Wage in April 2016 for all of our colleagues our customers through enhanced tools get people into work.
This includes our aged 18 and over, not just those over 25. and increased information, including an partnership with Our Club providing We are also committed to not using industry-wide GambleAware Week in 2016. employability training for young people zero-hour contracts.
inLondon, and our work with female ex-offenders.
Customers Colleagues Community Find out more: Find out more: Find out more: Page 33 Page 34 Page 36 20% 23,385 6,393 of shop window advertising colleague attendances at hours of colleagues time committed to responsible workshops held as part of the have been given in the last year gamblingmessages Retail Academy programme in 2016 to support good causes 33 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Customers Financial statements We are committed to keeping our customers safeand free from harmwhenever and wherever they choose to gamble with us.
We continue to evolve our responsible Principles Age verification gambling approach.
Key elements we have We continue to operate in a way Gambling is an age-restricted product implemented include: that is consistent with the three and we take every effort to ensure that introducing a voluntary TV advertising licensing objectives set by the UK people under the age of 18 do not get ban on sign-up offers free bets and free Gambling Commission: access to our products.
We operate a money before 9 pm: strict 'Think 21' policy and regular training preventing gambling from being a source for colleagues.
We also have leading age withdrawing all advertising of of crime or disorder, being associated verification measures in place online.
gaming machines from betting shop with crime or disorder, or being used to In 2016 we carried out over 1.3 million age windows and committed 20% of shop support crime: verification checks and the effectiveness of window advertising to responsible ensuring that gambling is conducted in a our age verification checks is independently gambling messages: fair and open way: and reviewed on a regular basis.
funding a major new advertising protecting children and other vulnerable campaign to educate people on We want our customers to have a safe persons from being harmed or exploited responsible gambling When the fun and enjoyable experience wherever and by gambling.
stops, stop and using more prominent whenever they bet with us.
responsible gambling messages on Responsible gambling We have a dedicated security team all advertising: who work across the business to keep Responsible gambling remains a key increasing exposure to responsible customers' data protected and online priority.
We want our customers to gamble gambling messaging on gaming accounts secure, and also to risk assess safely and responsibly, and we recognise machines, through audio transmissions all of our shops to make sure that they our role in encouraging and enabling and in-shop gantry: are safe.
We have introduced a range introducing the ability to set loss and of measures to give customers the tools We have a range of security measures in time limits on gaming machines, as well and the information to make an informed place in our betting shops including: providing mandatory warnings: decision about their gambling habits.
when a customer wins 50 or more, CCTV in every betting shop: The latest problem gambling evidence giving them the option to cash out: 2,214 shops with safe havens installed: has consistently shown that the levels and Holding responsible gambling of problem gambling remain low and interactions with individuals who exhibit Staff Safe, a third party that there is no causal link between harmful behaviour: and monitoring system.
particular gambling products and problem Using identified markers of harm to As a result we have seen positive progress gambling levels.
develop an approach using behavioural in keeping crime out of gambling.
analytics to identify problematic customers who can then be approached by colleagues.
Training 2,214 We continue to have rigorous training programmes in place for our colleagues LBOs with safe havens installed to ensure that we remain compliant as a business and consistent with our principles under the licensing objectives.
We train our colleagues in responsible gambling, security, and health safety requirements and delivered 135,029hours of training to our colleagues during the year.
34 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility continued Colleagues We also actively seek to gauge colleague Summary Human rights feedback on a regular basis, to identify With over 16,000 colleagues working with The Board considers that it is not engagement levels and also to identify us around the world, we are committed necessary for the Group to operate a actions we can take to improve.
We have to ensuring that those who work for us specific human rights policy at present.
committed to implementing changes are engaged and fulfilled in their work.
Our policies already operate within a where possible to address legitimate We aim to treat our colleagues fairly, which framework to comply with relevant laws, to colleague concerns.
is why in 2016 we introduced the National behave in an ethical manner and to respect We did not conduct a survey in 2016 but Living Wage for all of our UK colleagues, the human rights of our employees and are committed to undertake a survey not just those aged over 25 as required other stakeholders in the business.
We also continue The Corporate Responsibility Committee, in our commitment not to use zero Development on behalf of the Board, is satisfied that hour contracts.
William Hills policies operate in a way that At William Hill we pride ourselves on the is consistent with the UNs Global Compact, development opportunities we provide for Engagement covering areas of human rights, labour, the our colleagues to build their skills and start environment and anti-corruption.
We believe that engaged colleagues their careers, wherever they work for us.
contribute meaningfully to the continued We have a range of development success of our business.
That is why we programmes in place including the Taking engage our colleagues in the decisions that the Lead Programme.
In 2016, 27 colleagues affect our business through our National took part in the programme, and 18 have and International Colleague forums.
since gone on to senior leadership and management roles in the business.
We also run several initiatives that focus on getting people back into work from local communities where we are based.
Working Chance By giving women ex-offenders quality, paidjobs, William Hill is transforming lives by enabling the women and their 20 childrento cross the social divide from lives women joined our betting shop teams in 2016 as a result of the ofexclusionto lives of contribution.
Working Chance partnership Jocelyn Hillman Working Chance CEO Brenda started a career at William Hill I knew nothing about betting before after coming through our programme Ijoined but not only have my maths skills with Working Chance.
She recently visited improved, Im also now enjoying having Uganda to deliver talks to offenders on life conversations about horseracing!
I want to continue to work hard at my Ive worked for other companies in the job and to be a positive role model for past but none supported me as much people who have had similar experiences as the people at William Hill have.
It is and challenges to me.
important to me that the company I work for is making a firm commitment towards Brenda Birungi supporting ex-offenders.
Working Chance employee 35 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements Legislation requires that we define Working Chance Diversity senior managers as the directors of our In 2016 we worked with Female We are proud to have a very diverse range subsidiary companies.
However, the Board Ex-Offender charity Working Chance of colleagues, who contribute valuable believes this information does not provide whichprovides support for women with different perspectives to our business.
a meaningful analysis of how the Group past criminal convictions or who have operates so the data shown reflect the The chart below shows gender diversity recently left prison.
proportion of senior managers by our own within the Board, management and the internal grading system.
For reporting In 2016, 20 women join our betting shop Group as a whole.
purposes, there are 58 directors of teams as a result of this partnership.
subsidiary companies in 2016, comprising Gender diversity 46 men and 12 women.
as at 27 December 2016 Our Club number We also have a partnership with Our Reward and benefits Club, a social enterprise organisation Board of Senior All We believe in rewarding success where that provides employability training for directors managers colleagues we see it and encouraging our colleagues young people who have been out of work.
5 211 8,151 to help us become a successful company.
The programmes build confidence and We have a number of reward and benefit provide work experience and interview schemes to incentivise colleagues to share technique training.
in the success of our business, including the 8,192 William Hill Sharesave scheme.
2 We celebrate and recognise outstanding 62 contributions from our colleagues from around the world with the William Hill Excellence Awards each year, which Female celebrates achievements from community Male contribution and innovation to great service.
Our Club Through the Our Club programme, WilliamHill is giving a real helping hand toyoung people in the UK who 41 arelookingfor the skills and experience people employed through theOurClub partnership tokick-start their careers.
Paul Dowd Our Club CEO Our Club is a social enterprise The William Hill Our Club programme programme that has helped people like was a brilliant experience that boosted Jagvir get into full-time employment and my confidence and gave me the start a career at William Hill.
skills I needed to start a career at the company.
In 2016, we employed 41 people through this partnership.
Im enjoying my time here and getting to meet new customers and colleagues.
Im lucky to work in a great team who have been really supportive from my first day.
Jagvir Tiwana Our Club graduate 36 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility continued Community Summary We have an established presence in more International Community Day than 2,375 communities in the UK and in 10 locations around the world.
At William Hill, The Community Day was an exciting we believe in making a positive difference in each of the local communities where our event to be a part of.
It was great to colleagues live and work.
get the time out to go and help in our Our main Community Commitment communities around the world.
Close to HOME encourages our colleagues wherever they are based, to Vicky Lucente volunteer their time and skills to support HR Co-ordinator, William Hill US good causes in their local areas.
Our Community Policy prioritises the giving of company time to support worthy causes and encourages colleagues to get involved in three key areas: through sport: International Community Day Environmental impact through promoting skills and opportunity: and In 2016 we held William Hills first We continue to have a focus on reducing through supporting the local International Community Day which our carbon footprint principally through the community environment.
saw colleagues across our international reduction of our CO2 emissions.
We report offices take part in 24 hours of an emissions figure based on tonnes of We have seen colleagues from around volunteering projects.
This includes Scope the business get involved by volunteering 1 and Scope 2 emissions, including natural their time for good causes in their local It was a continuous day of community gas consumption, electricity consumption, areas.
In 2016, our colleagues participated activity that started in our Sydney office, refrigerant emissions and fuel from in 48 community projects and volunteered moving across every William Hill location company cars.
with the last project finishing in Nevada, decrease to 48,584 tCO e 2015: 54,100 2 a full 24 hours after we had begun.
Within this, Scope 1 emissions were Some groups partnered with charities and from animal rescue sanctuaries to 3,015 tCO e 2015: 2,757 tCO e and Scope 2 2 2 local initiatives they had already worked homeless shelters.
In Manila, for instance, emissions were 45,569 2015: 51,343 tCO2e.
with, others started new partnerships from our colleagues took part in an outreach that day.
Projects included: Since 2013, we have used an intensity programme to offer care and support to measure tonnes of CO equivalent 2 young people who are living with severe our colleagues in Manila ran football per 1m of net revenue to track our mental disabilities.
sessions for young people from a performance.
In 2016, we saw a year-onlocal charity: Colleagues have given a total of 6,393 year decrease of 11% to 30.29 2015: 34.01. hours of their time in the last year to in Gibraltar, our colleagues volunteered These data were calculated using DEFRA support these good causes in their local at an animal shelter: guidelines and conversion rates.
In 2017, we are committed to a team in Bulgaria helped to refurbish an providing even more opportunities for orphanage: and our colleagues to get involved with Close our head office team in London to HOME.
improved the garden for a local care home.
37 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements Bobby Moore Fund William Hill Foundation Our work through the Foundation William Hill really got behind Football continues to focus on two main areas: supporting our colleagues in times of Shirt Friday in 2016 and raised an amazing difficulty through the Hardship fund amount by wearing and encouraging and also Project Africa, where we are building a medical centre in the remote customers to wear their favourite teams village of Ol Maisor in Kenya.
Every penny raised will go towards helping us beat bowel cancer once and for all.
Stephanie Moore MBE founder of the Bobby Moore Fund 48 grants were made in 2016 through the hardship Fund totalling 48,645 Support for Sport lead-up to the event, we used our We continue to make a significant Corporate UK-wide network across our shops contribution to sport through the charitable partnerships and offices to educate our customers payment of various levies and media Alongside our Close to HOME and colleagues on the risks of bowel rights specifically into horseracing and volunteering initiatives we also support cancer, as part of bowel cancer greyhound racing.
a number of corporate charitable awareness month.
We also have sponsorship deals as the partnerships with chosen charities.
On Football Shirt Friday itself, our Official Betting Partners for Chelsea, We partnered with the Bobby Moore colleagues across the UK and Gibraltar Tottenham Hotspur and Everton, and Fund for 2016, the 50th anniversary donated 2 to wear their favourite are sponsors of the William Hill World year of Bobby lifting the World Cup football shirt to work for the day, raising Darts Championship.
20,000, all of which is going towards we are the betting partner for the funding bowel cancer trials and research.
As part of our partnership we sponsored and took part in the Funds flagship event, Football Shirt Friday in April.
In the 20,000 raised by our colleagues across the UK and Gibraltar on FootballShirt Friday 38 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility continued Performance Performance 2016 2015 Comments Customers Customer Number of self-exclusions 9,687 8,152 We have continued to improve responsible gambling protection Retail interactions, supported by training for colleagues to identify patterns of harmful behaviour.
Since October 2015 we have Number of self-exclusions 23,886 23,805 provided automatic and short-term self-exclusion systems Online and Telephone for Online customers.
RIDDOR reportable 2 18 RIDDOR requires accidents to be reported when they accidents customers resulted in absence from work for over seven days.
Customer Retail Net 68% 68% Mystery shopper scores in Retail remained stable even satisfaction Promoter Score against the backdrop of a significant organisational restructure.
Disputes referred to IBAS 719 454 Our customers can rely on an independent arbitrator to IBAS disputes found in 1.0% 1.3% resolve customer disputes.
In around 99% of cases, our customers favour original decisions are upheld.
Colleagues Protection RIDDOR reportable 11 18 RIDDOR requires accidents to be reported when they accidents colleagues resulted in absence from work for over seven days.
Incidents of violence 344 252 The number of physical attacks on LBO colleagues increased in the workplace in 2016 by 47%.
During the year, 46 anti-social behaviour workshops were held to address violence in the workplace, involving 80 LBOs and attended by 285 employees.
Number of robberies 89 120 The number of actual robberies at 45 excluding attempts continued to decrease.
Since 2009, we have successfully reduced the number of robberies by 73%.
Number of burglaries 56 55 The proportion of burglaries classed as attempts in 2016 increased slightly to 56%.
Since 2009, we have reduced the number of burglaries by 73%.
Number of cash-in-transit 9 7 Although the number of incidents increased slightly in 2016, incidents we have reduced them by 67% since 2009.
Average cash loss from 405 321 Average cash loss was 26% higher in 2016.
OTC robberies 39 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements Colleagues continued Training and Total number of training days 24,559 27,708 Our business is made more sustainable by attracting and development Value of training investment 1,019.4 834.5 retaining engaged employees.
We encourage this by offering 000 clear career progression and development opportunities.
Engagement Employee Engagement 75% As we are changing our employee survey approach, we did Index participation not conduct a full survey in 2016.
The next survey will happen in 2017.
Support William Hill Foundation 48,645 31,042 The Foundation supported colleagues from across the grants business, making 36 grants at an average of c1,351.
Community Environment Total CO equivalent tonnes 48,584 54,100 Our tonnes of CO e decreased by 10%.
2 2 Industry UK horseracing levy m 14.6 17.3 We continue to support sports through sponsorship and the relationships Sports sponsorship m 8.8 4.4 horseracing and greyhound racing levies.
Community Employee charity matching 74.3 41.2 Our colleagues participated in 177 charity events that we engagement scheme 000 matched in 2016.
GambleAware 1,300 822.9 William Hill is a major contributor to GambleAware donation 000 previously known as the Responsible Gambling Trust.
Our contribution each year is linked to net revenue levels.
