WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 29 report governance statements information Employees and diversity Employees Diversity The Group employs approximately 14,000 people, primarily WHSmith is committed to promoting a culture of equality and diversity in the UK, and is proud of its long history of being regarded through its policies, practices and procedures in all divisions of the as a responsible and respected employer.
Information on our WHSmith Group.
We want to ensure that all our employees receive Employee policies is available at www.
co. uk equal and fair treatment, and this applies to recruitment and selection, corporate responsibility our policies.
terms and conditions of employment, promotion, training and development opportunities and employment benefits.
Equal opportunities Within our strategy, one area of focus is on the attraction, The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture recruitment, development and retention of middle and senior that is free from discrimination and harassment and will not female managers within the business to create a pipeline of permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
The Company gives talent for future senior level and board appointments.
We have full and fair consideration to applications for employment when developed a partnership with www.
co. uk, a job and these are received from disabled people and employs disabled community website for professional and working mothers, and people whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Should an employee have introduced a range of flexible working initiatives, including become disabled when working for the Company, we will flexible working hours and more flexibility over home working.
endeavour to adapt the work environment and provide retraining The Board has chosen not to set specific representation targets ifnecessary so that they may continue their employment.
for women at Board level at this time although it does have due We recognise that it is just as important to support our colleagues regard for the benefits of diversity within the overriding objective mental wellbeing as it is to look after their physical wellbeing.
of ensuring that its membership has the appropriate balance of WHSmith has now made a pledge to have as many mental health skills, experience and independence.
The table below shows a first aiders as physical health first aiders within the next year.
breakdown of the composition of the Board as at year end.
We will also be working to ensure that our 1,100 line managers all receive mental health first aid training.
Tenure Male Female 01 year 0% Male 4 67% Training and development 13 years 0% Female 2 33% We recognise the importance of training and development to 36 years 67% support employee satisfaction and promote a knowledgeable 69 years 33% Executive non-executive workforce.
Our programmes enable all our staff to grow within Executive 2 33% the Company and develop their careers.
Succession planning is Non-executive 4 67% emphasised across the Group and we continue to achieve high internal succession rates.
Our Retail Academy supports store staff The tables below show the number and percentage of women and in developing their skills and moving on to new roles, and targeted men in the senior management team, the management team and development programmes in head office helps to create a pipeline the mix of employees across the Group as at year end.
of talent to fill future vacancies.
These programmes support internal succession and enable us to continue to make progress 1 Senior Management team towards our objective that over 90 per cent of store manager Women 4 23.5% appointments should be sourced from internal candidates.
Men 13 76.5% Employee involvement 1 This group comprises employees who are members of the executive committees whoare not also members of the Board.
Employee engagement is supported through clear communication of the Groups performance and objectives.
This information is 2 Management team cascaded through team briefings, employee events, intranet Women 323 41% sites and e-newsletters.
This approach and the Groups open Men 465 59% management style encourages employees to contribute to business development.
We conduct annual employee engagement 2 This wider group includes store managers and senior Head Office staff who are not also surveys across our head offices and all distribution centres, members of the senior management team.
and are extending these to our Travel and High Street store Employee mix across the Group management population during 2016.
Results are shared with all staff and actions agreed to respond to specific points of feedback, Women 8,472 65% with employee focus groups used to help understand the staff Men 4,634 35% feedback in more depth.
The Strategic report on pages 1 to 29 of the Annual report has Employee share ownership been approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
The Company operates a HM Revenue & Customs Approved Stephen Clarke Save-As-you-Earn share option scheme Sharesave Scheme Group Chief Executive which provides employees with the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company.
Approximately 716 employees participate in 13 October 2016 the scheme.
