GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Wizz Air is a successful company and we consider ourselves to be a regional aviation industry champion in our home markets.
However, we recognise that financial performance is not all that it takes to be successful.
Wizz Air must also be a responsible company, where business is done ethically and with integrity.
We already have in place our Code of Ethics The Wizz Way which sets out how our business is run.
But being a responsible company goes further than just business and we are developing a strategy that will set out a framework for our sustainability endeavours and objectives to reach.
The sustainability strategy is being built upon three pillars: our people and how we interact with our colleagues, our passengers and the communities in which we operate: the planet and how we manage our environmental impact: and our focus, already mentioned, of making sure that we conduct our business ethically.
We want our sustainability strategy not only to be achievable but also to contribute genuine value.
Although the strategy itself is being finalised, we have already implemented a number of initiatives that we believe embody some of what we want to achieve, for example: E promoting a healthy lifestyle by sponsoring major running events such as the Skopje Marathon, the Kosice Runway Run, and the Budapest Half-Marathon, engaging with our communities, and encouraging participation of our colleagues by providing travel, accommodation and entry to many of the events: E encouraging team building amongst colleagues and working to ensure a genuine and unique WIZZ culture through departmental away-days and through the organisation of Company events such as the annual ski event attended by over 150 colleagues and the Christmas party, hosted in Budapest, for over 1,000 colleagues from across the network: E ensuring that Wizz Air is not only a great airline, but that it also remains a great airline to work for.
This year, we carried out our first network-wide feedback survey, to which over 1,500 colleagues responded.
Conducted on an anonymous basis, the results will be shared with colleagues and we will work together on any key issues highlighted: E supporting and promoting community volunteer projects in base cities carried out by local crew: E personal development of our employees through the introduction of talent assessment and leadership development programmes: E developing and implementing a large number of fuel-saving initiatives 55 so far through which we not only save money but also drive down our emissions and carbon footprint.
As an example, our fleet fuel consumption, measured in tonnes per block hour, was 0.5 per cent.
lower in the 2016 financial year than in the previous year: E ensuring that fuel consumption and, so emissions, are kept as low as possible.
Our fleet is already one of the youngest, most fuel-efficient in Europe and includes the 230-seat Airbus A321ceo the most efficient single aisle aircraft in operation.
In 2015, we concluded an agreement with Airbus to purchase 110 Airbus A321neo aircraft, with uncommitted purchase rights for a further 90 aircraft.
Our commitment to operating the latest technology aircraft means that, as we continue to grow, our environmental footprint will be as small as possible: and E making sure that we remain efficient in all other aspects of our operation.
During the 2016 financial year, we moved our Budapest operational headquarters to the Laurus office complex, an A-grade office building employing  technology to provide a superior working environment and able to offer the Company the space needed for its continued growth over the coming decade.
The offices location at a major public transport interchange midway between the airport and downtown means that more of our colleagues can use public transport, resulting in fewer and shorter car journeys as well as making the company even more attractive for prospective employees.
These initiatives are very much the start of what we aim to achieve.
We want Wizz Air to be recognised not only as a great airline to fly with, but also as a company that adds real value to its employees careers and the communities in which it operates, and with a real concern for the environment.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 58
