Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Strategic report 20 Corporate Responsibility Responsible retailing OUR PRIORITIES WHAT WEVE DONE WHY IT MATTERS WHAT WE WILL DO NEXT With the population set to increase to nine billion people by 2050, Continue to focus on time bound commitments for the responsible Published Ocean Three out of three trees and the impacts of climate change impacting on agricultural yields, sourcing of own brand seafood: and Sustainable Disclosure Project detailing in WWFs UK Timber food security issues are becoming a growing concern for us as a the fisheries we buy from, Work with own brand suppliers to ensure compliance of our palm oil Sourcing Scorecard catch method and issues supply chains food business and for our customers.
We operate a complex and sourcing policy.
We source only Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil 100% fast paced business.
Decisions we take about how we operate and certified mass balance or segregated palm oil and derivatives within British own where we buy from must be taken with care.
brand fresh meat sold in our stores With thousands of products sold in our stores, our supply chain Work with suppliers in 2016 to meet the updated requirements Actively promoting the Actively supporting and the people within it span the globe.
Effective management of of the Ethical Trading Policy: Responsible Stronger Together initiative to Responsible Fishing our complex supply chains is key to ensuring brand integrity, risk suppliers to raise awareness of the Scheme, ensuring high Deliver further training to relevant technical and commercial teams risks of worker exploitation and crew welfare standards sourcing management and sustainable supply for our own brand products.
to build understanding of ethical trading issues, impacts on workers, Updated Ethical Trading human trafficking on fishing vessels Our approach combines a risk-based monitoring programme to track and our policies and procedures: Policy, in line with industry suppliers compliance with our ethical trading standards, alongside best practice, launched in Continue to promote Stronger Together training to raise awareness October 2015 with training training of suppliers and internal teams to deliver continuous of modern slavery risks with our suppliers and relevant internal and practical guidance for improvement.
Media coverage of serious incidents concerning colleagues: and all suppliers working conditions and hidden exploitation remains topical.
Continue to build engagement and influence in relevant external ethical trading networks.
The issue of climate change is one of the greatest challenges to the Continued progress towards 30% absolute reduction in operational Carbon footprint reduction Waste to landfill reduction All stores can now global community.
As well as the clear moral case for emissions carbon emissions by 2020 target: Managing our 19% 24% 26% 21% 3.2% 2.0% 2.2% 2.0% donate unsold food Definition Definition and water use reduction, changing climate patterns are a material Includes energy, Measured as our Firmly embed and monitor the unsold food to charity programme to charity waste, refrigeration waste from our environmental issue for our business as they are a major threat to food security.
in all stores: and and transport for stores that we are our stores, offices, unable to recycle Effective resource management relating to energy use, transport, manufacturing and or have processed.
Look at opportunities for further food waste reduction and footprint packing facilities.
refrigeration and waste, all contribute to emissions and are redistribution of surplus food to provide social benefit across fundamental to managing our costs.
KPIs 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Childhood obesity is a key focus for the Government and public Seek supplier partners for sugar reduction projects in key categories health organisations.
Children consume more sugar than is and reformulate to maintain our position on salt and to lower sugar Healthy eating Continued support recommended, with soft drinks the single biggest contributor.
levels where possible: and Reported of the Change 4 and obesity Reformulation is one of the most effective ways to reduce sugar Continue to support Change 4 Life, especially its Sugar Life campaign consumption.
Our ongoing product reformulation, removal of Swaps campaign.
1bn 54% confectionery from the checkout and partnership with Change 4 Removed sweets fewer calories in compliance with 2017 Life shows our commitment to improving child health.
and chocolate salt targets our customers baskets from checkouts over a year Its important that we play a positive role in the communities Ensure a local approach to community and charity activity, working we serve.
We want our stores to be deeply integrated into the to deliver local solutions in our stores.
Celebrating events and Community local area, supporting community groups, developing local supporting local causes that matter in our regions, through our 2.5m 2.5m 15m engagement partnerships and helping charities.
With the majority of customers community champion programme: raised for Sue Ryder given to support local raised in our stores for and colleagues from local neighbourhoods, we want our stores Support colleague fundraising and registered charities through partnership causes through Morrisons charities and community to actively engage with the local area and be a force for good in Charitable Foundation groups through colleague the Morrisons Foundation, making a positive difference to peoples fundraising and customer the community.
lives: and donations Maximise the final year of our national charity partnership with Sue Ryder.
Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 21 The full Corporate Responsibility 2015 16 Review will be available for you to download at www.
co. uk cr OUR PRIORITIES WHAT WEVE DONE WHY IT MATTERS WHAT WE WILL DO NEXT With the population set to increase to nine billion people by 2050, Continue to focus on time bound commitments for the responsible and the impacts of climate change impacting on agricultural yields, sourcing of own brand seafood: and Sustainable food security issues are becoming a growing concern for us as a Work with own brand suppliers to ensure compliance of our palm oil supply chains food business and for our customers.
We source only Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil fast paced business.
Decisions we take about how we operate and certified mass balance or segregated palm oil and derivatives within where we buy from must be taken with care.
With thousands of products sold in our stores, our supply chain Work with suppliers in 2016 to meet the updated requirements and the people within it span the globe.
Effective management of of the Ethical Trading Policy: Responsible our complex supply chains is key to ensuring brand integrity, risk Deliver further training to relevant technical and commercial teams sourcing management and sustainable supply for our own brand products.
to build understanding of ethical trading issues, impacts on workers, Our approach combines a risk-based monitoring programme to track and our policies and procedures: suppliers compliance with our ethical trading standards, alongside Continue to promote Stronger Together training to raise awareness training of suppliers and internal teams to deliver continuous of modern slavery risks with our suppliers and relevant internal improvement.
Media coverage of serious incidents concerning colleagues: and working conditions and hidden exploitation remains topical.
The issue of climate change is one of the greatest challenges to the Continued progress towards 30% absolute reduction in operational global community.
As well as the clear moral case for emissions carbon emissions by 2020 target: Managing our and water use reduction, changing climate patterns are a material Firmly embed and monitor the unsold food to charity programme environmental issue for our business as they are a major threat to food security.
in all stores: and Effective resource management relating to energy use, transport, Look at opportunities for further food waste reduction and footprint refrigeration and waste, all contribute to emissions and are redistribution of surplus food to provide social benefit across fundamental to managing our costs.
Childhood obesity is a key focus for the Government and public Seek supplier partners for sugar reduction projects in key categories health organisations.
Children consume more sugar than is and reformulate to maintain our position on salt and to lower sugar Healthy eating recommended, with soft drinks the single biggest contributor.
levels where possible: and and obesity Reformulation is one of the most effective ways to reduce sugar Continue to support Change 4 Life, especially its Sugar consumption.
confectionery from the checkout and partnership with Change 4 Life shows our commitment to improving child health.
Its important that we play a positive role in the communities Ensure a local approach to community and charity activity, working we serve.
Celebrating events and Community local area, supporting community groups, developing local supporting local causes that matter in our regions, through our engagement partnerships and helping charities.
With the majority of customers community champion programme: and colleagues from local neighbourhoods, we want our stores Support colleague fundraising and registered charities through to actively engage with the local area and be a force for good in the Morrisons Foundation, making a positive difference to peoples the community.
lives: and Maximise the final year of our national charity partnership with Sue Ryder.
