Sustainability Building a better business Wolseleys Better business framework Our material issues Our principles comprises 13 material Talent management We are committed to people issues which actively Our and development development atevery level of the support our growth, organisation.
people improve employee engagement, address our top risks and Competitive pay and reward We offer competitive remuneration compliance requirements to ourpeople.
or are important to our shareholders, customers Employee engagement We value our people and actively and suppliers.
work toimprove employee The framework was engagement.
established following consultation with our Diversity and inclusion We understand, respect and value stakeholders.
We strive to personal and cultural differences.
make these issues an integral part of how we do business, which is reected in this report.
Many of the issues are Health and safety We will not compromise the health not covered in this section or safety ofanyindividual.
but are instead described within the Key resources and relationships section on pages12 and 13.
Ethical behaviour and We adhere to strict HR policies human rights and comply with our own Code of Conduct.
Product quality and integrity We work with our suppliers to Our maintain excellent standards of product quality andsafety.
products Responsible sourcing We expect our suppliers, contractors and agents toadhere to our Code of Conduct andto adopt similar standards.
Promoting eco products We are a positive link in the sustainable construction supplychain.
Environmental efficiency We run efficient operations that Our consume lessenergy and produce less waste.
operations Compliance with the law We are committed to observing both the spirit and the letter of thelaw.
Protecting information We protect both digital and physical information on behalf of our stakeholders.
Active corporate citizen We voluntarily contribute our time Our and our financial support to the communities in which we work.
communities Wolseley plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Governance Opportunities Risks The overall Better business framework is reviewed annually to test the ongoing materiality A multi-skilled and well trained workforce Changing operating models require us to of the issues identied.
The Groups General will help us to deliver against our objectives constantly up-skill our people.
A competitive and adapt to changing customer needs.
marketplace puts greater emphasis on Counsel is responsible to the Board for the excellent career development programmes to overall programme.
Objectives and, where attract andretain talent.
appropriate, quantied targets are set for each material issue.
Group-wide KPIs have not been Well structured remuneration and incentive Attracting and retaining the best people is set for all issues as it is not always practical to programmes align employee and company dependent on the strength of remuneration objectives in order to maximise results.
bring distinct local methods under one unied metric.
Improved performance is the primary Motivated and engaged people deliver Low employee engagement can lead to subgoal.
Business units monitor performance excellentcustomer service, develop optimal business results and poor retention of throughout the year and performance reports strongsupplier relationships and maximise ourpeople.
aresubmitted to the Executive Committee and operational efficiencies.
the Board at regular intervals.
A diverse workforce brings with it the In an ever-changing market a lack of diversity widest range of knowledge, skills and canlimit business progression.
Better business experience and promotes innovation.
Aninclusive environment allows our people Progressin2016 to feel at ease in the workplace.
The following two pages provide an overview of our progress in the year under review.
A robust health and safety programme Our principal health and safety risks relate to protects our people, customers and manual handling, working at height, the use of It isreferenced when further information suppliers.
It also improves productivity by motorised equipment and vehicle collisions.
onthese topics can be found elsewhere in this reducing the number of days lost to injury.
A greater level of detail is available on theWolseley plc website www.
A commitment to high ethical standards The business is exposed to risks of bribery strengthens our reputation with customers, and fraud.
Compliance programmes are in suppliers and other stakeholders.
place to mitigate these risks.
For more detail, see page 39, Government regulations.
Sourcing and supplying safe, quality Product-related litigation is recognised as one products improves our margins, enhances of our principal risks.
For more detail on how customer satisfaction and enables our we are managing the risk, see page39.
people in branch todevote more time toservice.
Our values Working with reputable suppliers gives our There is increasing focus on supply chain We act with integrity stakeholders confidence in the integrity of transparency including labour standards, We conduct all our activities with our supply chain and reduces the risk of modern slavery, conict minerals and avoiding fairness, honesty and integrity.
business interruption or reputational harm.
We drive for results Where the opportunity exists, we can gain Poor market conditions and pressure on and improvements market share by supplying sustainable margins are two of the Groups principal We listen and respond to the needs construction products and offering training risks see page 37.
As building regulations of our customers, then exceed their and advice to our customers.
increasingly focus on sustainable enhancements, eco products represent a expectations.
We are not happy with growthopportunity.
the status quo, andconstantly strive to improve.
Better energy and waste management Energy costs and increasing green taxes decreases costs and improves operational can reduce Wolseleys profit margins.
We We value our people efficiencies.
have reduction targets in place to minimise We understand, respect and value these costs.
personal and cultural differences: we are open and honest in all our dealings Compliance with legal regulations gives us The risk of non-compliance with increasing a licence to operate.
levels of governmental regulations is a priority.
Robust systems and processes together Information security is one of our principal with an informed workforce reduce the risk risks.
For more detail, see page 38. of losing sensitive or commercial data.
Engagement with the communities in which Wolseley has many locally established we operate promotes our business and competitors.
Community engagement can enhances people skills and engagement.
enhance our local reputation and allow us tocompete more effectively.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 Sustainability continued Business partners and suppliers are expected Our people Key to conform to Wolseleys Code of Conduct.
highlights During 2015 16 we reviewed and rened our The Code of Conduct is detailed on the approach to talent management, employee Wolseleyplc website www.
We achieved our two-year engagement and remuneration, and have plans reduction targets for carbon inplace to improve our practices further.
and waste and set new fiveOur products For further detail on these three aspects of our year targets people strategy see page 12 Product quality and integrity During 2015 16 we continued to strengthen We continued to improve our Diversity and inclusion our controls around product sourcing.
injury rate, but must improve on Product integrity and product sourcing lost workdays and collisions One of the core Group values of Wolseley is managers from across the Group met in May to that we value our people.
We aim to recruit, We enhanced our minimum share best practices and to formalise enhanced retain and develop a high quality and diverse quality control procedures for minimum quality control procedures for sourcing workforce.
To achieve our objective, we hire the sourcing from the Far East from the Far East.
Internal audits of product best candidates available from the widest range quality procedures were completed in all major of knowledge, skills and experience.
Our diversity We saved suppliers in the USA businesses and improvement actions are policy statement can be seen on page 54. and UK from travelling 4.3 being addressed.
million miles by back hauling Total Total % product from their factories men women women Responsible sourcing Directors Board 7330% Each business assesses its suppliers against set criteria to provide protection to both us and 1 Senior leadership 79 13 14% our customers in the event of a product failure 2 Total employees 31,127 9,383 23% orbreach of regulation in the supply chain.
1 The Senior leadership group at Wolseley consists of managers Modern Slavery Act drawn from business units and central functions with responsibility forplanning, directing or controlling the activities of the Company.
The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 the Act 2 Total employee numbers of 40,510 are reported above total men plus requires Wolseley plc the Group to make an total women.
The lower number of 38,852 reported on page 6 is the annual statement outlining the steps the business number of Full Time Equivalent employees.
is taking to identify and prevent modern slavery within our organisation and its supply chain.
Health and safety Wolseley had set a 2 per cent reduction target Through its various business divisions, the for each of the three health and safety metrics Group sources, distributes and sells products in during the year under review.
mature markets in North America and Western Europe.
A small percentage of the Groups own Injury rate 2.6% improvement label products are sourced from other regions, 1.47 per 100,000 hours worked principally in Asia.
Lost workday 5.6% deterioration It is recognised that there could be a small risk of rate 49.51 per 100 employees human trafcking or slavery in the manufacturing, Fleet third party 0.4% deterioration distribution and logistics activities that are Case study: collision rate 15.44 per 100 vehicles connected with our business.
Wolseley has Reducing product zero tolerance for such activities.
The Group is The increase in lost workdays and collisions is undertaking a number ofsteps to minimise the risks disappointing and all businesses have developed risks of slavery occurring in our business or our plans to reverse this trend.
The Group has Ferguson engaged a third supply chain.
set itself the target of achieving a 2 per cent party to conduct audits Training on combating modern slavery has reduction in each metric during the coming year.
of 60 valve manufacturing been delivered in local language to colleagues plants across the globe over For further information see pages 9 and 12 in the Groups sourcing operations in Asia.
Background screening of all suppliers of Industrial valves are a high products and services is underway using risk product category and Ethical behaviour and human rights athird party database.
Screening has been the audits provide additional Our focus in 2015 16 was to continue to ensure completed for all organisations that we have assurance to the business that our compliance programmes in relation to identied as higher risk e. g. due to geography, and its customers.
fraud, bribery and corruption and anti-trust laws activity or contract value.
were fully embedded in business practice.
Audits and site visits of suppliers in low cost Human rights countries are undertaken on their appointment Both the United Nations Global Compact and and periodically thereafter.
Procedures for Universal Declaration of Human Rights have on-boarding and evaluating such suppliers been considered in determining the human rights have been reviewed this year.
issues that are material to Wolseley.
These topics The Group has maintained a Code of Conduct include employee policies covering topics and a condential whistleblowing line, such as anti-discrimination, health and safety applicable to all Wolseley businesses, which and ethics and conduct.
All of these issues are allow people to speak up in confidence and managed through policies and programmes of without the fear of any negative consequences.
work and are regularly monitored for compliance.
Wolseley plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information This statement is made on behalf of all subsidiaries Compliance with the law of Wolseley plc www.
com and is Legal and compliance teams across the Group made pursuant to section 54 1 of the Act and work with the businesses to adhere to all legal constitutes our Groups slavery and human and regulatory requirements.
Each business trafcking statement for the financial year ending 31 July 2016. assesses its Protecting information Further information on the steps taken by As our channels to market develop so too does suppliers against set the Groups UK subsidiary can befound at the technology that we employ and the data criteria to provide www.
We are committed to protecting the security of our systems and information protection to both us so that customers can transact with us safe in Promotion of eco products and our customers the knowledge that we have the appropriate Energy prices and government subsidies have safeguards in place.
The Group operates an for the most part not supported increased sales in the event of a IT governance framework, including a full set of eco products during the year.
However, our product failure or of dedicated IT policies, aligned to known businesses continue to promote these products security and operational risks.
A broader Group where there is customer demand.
breach of regulation information security policy determines how we in the supply chain.
For further information see page 13 protect all information wherever it exists and in whatever form electronic or hard-copy.
Our operations Our communities Environmental efficiency Active corporate citizen Wolseley had set two-year targets ending in the year Our businesses seek to be contributing under review to reduce carbon and waste both members to the communities in which they by 5 per cent per m revenue and to increase the operate.
The Group supports a number of percentage of waste that is recycled to 29 per cent.
charitable organisations both at a Group and a business unit level.
In 2015 16, Wolseleys Carbon 14.9% improvement businesses contributed to a range of charities, 30.3 tCO e per m revenue 2 including support for the homeless, scholarships Total waste 5.8% improvement for young apprentices and provision of care for 5.0 tonnes per m revenue sufferers of cancer and other illnesses.
% of total 23.6% improvement Our people engaged in numerous community wasterecycled from 23.3% to 28.9% and charity events.
Further information and Total revenue of 14,640 million including discontinued businesses and case studies of the events our employees and excluding Soak.
com is used when calculating the relative carbon and businesses have supported over the last year waste performance.
The lower number of 14,430 million reported on the inside front cover is the revenue for the ongoing business.
All Scope 1 and 2 emissions and selected Scope 3 emissions are reported.
Further detail Total carbon emissions on the data provided can be found in the Basis Tonnes of CO equivalent 2 of Reporting document on the Wolseley plc Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 website www.
Emissions are Landlled Incinerated Recycled calculated using DEFRA carbon factors and are reported as tonnes of 72,158 74,937 73,313 CO2 equivalent abbreviated as tCO2e, based on the Global Warming Potential GWP of each of the basket of six greenhouse gases, 17,638 16,824 21,135 asdened bythe Kyoto Protocol.
8,573 Case study: 7,428 7,275 Each business has set new five-year targets for UK races for Cancer Research carbon and waste reduction and for the increase 47,906 48,726 44,903 in the percentage of waste that is recycled.
At a Two teams from Wolseley UK successfully Group level, our targets for 2021 are a 10 per completed the Yukon River Quest, raising 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 cent reduction in carbon, a 15 per cent reduction 150,000 for Cancer Research.
in waste both per m revenue and an increase Inaccuracies identied in prior year numbers It is the worlds longest annual canoe and resulted in immaterial adjustments to the in the proportion of our recycled waste to kayak race at 444 miles and is held in North 2013 14 and 2014 15 carbon and waste data.
Due to rounding of the gures in the bar charts there is not a precise correlation with the subFor further information see page 13 total and total performance gures.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29
