How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review We strive to be a responsible and sustainable business.
opportunities for businesses able to tap into low carbon We work to maximise the positive value our business innovation.
Continued rapid technological change creates for clients, share owners, our people, supplier is disrupting old business models and impacting the partners, pro bono partners and the communities in relationship between business and consumers.
We are which we operate, and to reduce negative social and seeing rising expectations from citizens, consumers, environmental impacts associated with our activities.
employees and stakeholders who expect business to Our approach and performance in 2016 is summarised lead in tackling societal challenges.
below and explored in more detail in our Sustainability Brands need to prepare now for these challenges.
Report which will be published in June 2017 wpp.
com The most successful will be those who are able to integrate sustainability.
sustainability into their strategies and products, and to align their purpose with changing societal needs.
Our clients require the best insight, research and communications Sustainability and our business services to help them do this effectively and will continue to seek out a marketing services provider who understands Our commitment to sustainability makes us a more the changing landscape and shares their values.
attractive employer, helps us align with the interests of our Our companies are already working with many pioneers clients and enables us to improve efficiency, be prepared for of sustainable business.
As our clients increasingly feel the changes in regulation and maintain positive relationships impact of these longer-term trends, their significance will with our stakeholders.
Our work on sustainability supports grow for WPP too.
Our work on sustainability today will our business strategy in three main ways: help ensure our business is prepared for the future.
Access to skills: Strong employment policies, investment in skills and inclusive working practices help us recruit, motivate and develop the talented people we need to serve Sustainability management our clients in all disciplines across our locations, including new markets where our industry is less well established.
Paul Richardson, WPPs Group finance director, is the Access to new business: A growing number of our Board director responsible for sustainability.
He chairs our clients are prioritising sustainability and looking for Sustainability Committee made up of senior representatives partners who share their values and aspirations.
Our from Group functions, which reviews progress on key commitment to responsible and sustainable business sustainability issues.
Our central sustainability function practices helps us to access this business and to meet the develops strategy and coordinates data collection.
It sustainability requirements in client procurement processes.
communicates on sustainability matters on behalf of the Privacy and data security continue to be a high priority for Group and works with Group functions such as our talent our clients and for WPP.
team, legal, real estate, IT and procurement.
The head of Efficiency, risk and reputation: Managing the social sustainability reports directly to the Group finance director.
and environmental impacts of our business and selecting Strategic direction and policy frameworks for supplier partners who adopt standards consistent with our sustainability are established at Group level with own can reduce costs and risks to the business as well as implementation devolved to our companies.
During 2016, improving efficiency and safeguarding our reputation.
we appointed two sustainability advisors centrally to support our operating companies on sustainability and to The longer term audit compliance with the WPP Code of Business Conduct, Sustainability Policy and Human Rights Policy Statement.
Demographic, technological, social and environmental During 2017, we will launch a sustainability self-assessment change are set to reshape our world over the next decades questionnaire to all WPP offices to help us identify gaps generating new challenges, uncertainties and opportunities in implementation, focusing on governance, employment for our clients.
There will be new markets from a growing practices, environment and supply chain.
The sustainability and ageing population, but also unprecedented demands on advisors will use the results of the assessment to prioritise public services and resources.
Climate change and resource companies for further engagement including on-site scarcity will create major challenges for sectors from assessments and training.
agriculture and food, to manufacturing and retail, but also WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 161 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Risk and opportunity Performance in 2016 Access to skills Social, environmental, human rights and ethical risks are Leading employment practices are essential to ensure we integrated into the Groups assessment of principal risks have the skills our business and clients need.
We invest in which are set out in detail in the Strategic report.
recruiting, retaining and developing a diverse range of talented people to serve our clients across our many Stakeholder engagement and materiality markets and disciplines.
We interact with a wide range of stakeholders in the course Inclusion and diversity of doing business and benefit from their views and insights.
Our most important stakeholder groups are clients, A diverse workforce is more creative and effective.
Diversity investors and our people.
of outlook and background is particularly important for Stakeholder feedback helps us to identify the priority our sector because our work needs to connect with a very sustainability issues for our business and to manage these diverse and global consumer base.
We carried out a materiality assessment in 2014 We promote inclusive working practices and support and we updated this during 2016 through research with our companies to increase the diversity of our workforce external stakeholders and senior employees.
The findings including through recruitment, policy development, training, will be published in our Sustainability Report.
mentoring and flexible working practices.
All employees We engaged with investors, rating agencies and undertake awareness training on diversity as part of our benchmarking organisations on sustainability during 2016 online ethics training How we behave, see page 164.
We including CDP, Dow Jones Sustainability Index, Ethibel are also developing e-learning to help our people understand, Sustainability Index, ET Index Research, La Financiere fide identify and address unconscious bias.
This is being launched LEchiquier, FTSE4Good, Generali Investments, Human in 2017 and will be mandatory for all employees.
Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index, Institute The X Factor is our senior mentoring and of Business Ethics, MSCI, STOXX Global ESG Leaders, development program for women led by Charlotte Beers, Sustainalyitics, Trillium Asset Management and Vigeo.
the former global CEO of Ogilvy & Mather and chairman To raise investor awareness of our activities, we submit of J. Walter Thompson, which prepares senior and high this section of our Annual Report for share owner voting potential WPP female leaders for the next level of at our AGM.
By the end of 2016, 109 women had completed We are included in the FTSE4Good Index.
participate in the CDP climate change program and Our WPP Stella womens network aims to address received a score of Ain 2016.
We also scored Ain the barriers that could prevent women progressing their CDP supply chain program.
careers to senior levels within the Group and to facilitate the sharing of good practices between our companies.
Data and reporting The network began in the UK and will be extended to our businesses in the US and Asia.
During 2016, we WPP companies report their sustainability data to the launched our Family Friendly Guidelines and Parent parent company quarterly through our Group financial Portal for UK operating companies.
This is helping our reporting system.
Data in this section covers the period companies to implement best practice maternity, paternity from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016.
We will publish and flexible working policies and to support working our 15th Sustainability Report in June 2017.
WPP Stella is also running networking events, best practice, selected environmental and employment a coaching program for senior women and media data will be externally assured by Bureau Veritas, a training to facilitate more of our female leaders to leading independent assurance provider.
162 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Gender diversity 2012-2016 Our university partnerships include our support for the WPP School of Communications and Marketing in % women 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Shanghai, our partnership with the Indian School of Design WPP Board 29% 29% 24% 29% 19% and Innovation in Mumbai, which offers a three-year Executive undergraduate course on marketing communications, and leaders 34% 33% 31% 32% 32% our Africa Academy, providing high-quality training and Senior talent development.
WPP and Ogilvy UK are participating managers 48% 47% 46% 47% 47% in the new Rotational Degree Apprenticeship program, a Total employees three-year program developed by Pearson Business School full-time equivalent 54% 54% 54% 54% 54% that enables participants to gain a Business Management degree and professional experience through apprenticeships As at 31 December 2016, women comprised 29% of the at leading businesses.
Partners in the program include WPP Board, 33% of non-executive directors, 34% of Unilever, IBM, Tesco and Pearson.
directors and executive leaders in our operating companies We offered 6,413 paid internships and apprenticeships certainly not good enough, 48% of senior managers and at our companies during 2016 5,356 internships and 1,057 54% of total employees.
It is our policy that all internships and We measure ethnic diversity in our businesses in the apprenticeships globally should be paid to enable a diverse UK and the US using national definitions of ethnic racial range of candidates to take up these positions.
minorities the Equality and Human Rights Commission in the UK and the Equal Opportunity Commission in the Reward and compensation US.
In 2016, 28% of full-time employees in these countries were from ethnic minorities 2015: 26%.
We were ranked Attractive compensation packages help us to recruit and 10th in the FTSE 100 by Sir John Parkers Report into the retain talented people.
Our people also have access to a Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards published in November range of benefits, including pensions and private health 2016, with 3 out of 14 directors considered diverse.
Compensation is regularly benchmarked against other companies in our markets and sector.
Compensation Training, development and education for our most senior leaders is set in accordance with our Directors Compensation Policy, see pages 132 to 144.
We invested 45.1 million in training for our people Many of our people participate in performance-related during 2016 2015: 41.1m.
Training supports employee incentive plans on top of base pay.
These reward excellent engagement and development, and enables us to meet performance and are assessed either through the employees the changing needs of our clients.
Our Group training operational business area or on the share price performance programs are designed to help us deliver on our four of the Company.
Senior employees may participate in strategic priorities: horizontality: new markets: new media: share-based compensation plans.
and technology, data and content.
For example, the WPP Our Worldwide Ownership Plan and WPP Share Mini MBA is a series of workshops that help our rising Option Plan have been active since 1997 and have granted talent broaden their understanding of business and share option awards to more than 157,000 of our people.
marketing issues, develop leadership skills, and deliver client value.
2,732 participants worldwide have benefited Employee external appointments to date.
We partner with education providers and offer We recognise that our companies executives may be invited internships and apprenticeships to help build the future to become non-executive directors of other companies, skills base for our industry and to identify talented young and that such experience may be beneficial to the Group.
Consequently, executives are allowed to accept nonexecutive appointments with non-competing companies, subject to obtaining the approval of the Group finance director in the case of senior executives.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 163 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Access to new business Sustainability services In 2016, at least 11.4% of our revenues, 1.64 billion Our companies work with clients to integrate sustainability 2015: 1.29 billion, came from clients that asked about into consumer research, brand strategies and marketing.
our approach to sustainability or engaged with us on We also develop social marketing campaigns for clients, sustainability issues.
including governments and NGOs, to raise public awareness of social and environmental issues and help bring Privacy and data security about positive behaviour change.
Many of our companies have specialist sustainability offerings and social marketing Consumer data is used extensively in developing, units to lead this work.
Examples of recent campaigns are implementing and monitoring marketing campaigns included in our Sustainability Report.
particularly by our digital marketing and insight businesses.
We have rigorous privacy and data security standards and procedures governing how we collect, use and store Efficiency, risk and reputation this data to protect consumer privacy and reduce risks -------------------,... to our business.
Our commitment to responsible and sustainable business The WPP Data Code of Conduct and our global IT practices helps us to operate efficiently, to reduce legal, security, privacy and social media policies, apply to all WPP financial, reputational and other risks to our business and companies and provide a clear framework for implementing to maintain good relationships with our people, suppliers, privacy best practice.
Our Client Contract Toolkit helps clients and other stakeholders.
WPP is committed to WPP companies understand how privacy and data maintaining high ethical standards, protecting human rights protection criteria should be integrated into client contracts.
and acting with honesty and integrity in everything we do.
We engage our people on our Code and policies through mandatory Group-wide global online Privacy Our ethical standards and Data Security Awareness training.
Since it was launched in December 2015, training has been completed The WPP Code of Business Conduct provides the ethical by 154,570 employees.
framework for WPP and our companies.
It sets out the We are building privacy and security awareness through values, principles and key points of policy that apply to our Safer Data campaign and online platform.
The Safer everyone at WPP and that our companies must reflect in Data platform is a key source of know-how on privacy risk their own policies and procedures.
It is supported by more and data security with a range of information and guidance detailed policies in key areas including anti-bribery and for employees.
It includes a SaveMyData reporting tool, corruption.
Senior managers in all our companies and our to allow our people to raise concerns and questions about business partners and suppliers are asked to sign a copy of data issues direct with our in-house legal teams.
During the WPP Code of Business Conduct each year to confirm 2017 we will continue to help our companies prepare they will comply with its principles.
for implementation of the General Data Protection Our ethics training, How we behave, is compulsory Regulation GDPR and ePrivacy Regulation.
It covers topics such as diversity, human We used our Data Health Checker in 2016 for the fourth rights and avoiding misleading work.
Our online training year running to review privacy risks and data security on anti-bribery and corruption covers the Foreign Corrupt practices in our businesses.
The results showed that the Practices Act and UK Bribery Act on issues such as majority of our companies have mitigation measures that hospitality and gifts, facilitation payments and the use of match or exceed their level of privacy risk, with the average third-party advisors.
Training is updated every 2-3 years score being 2.9 out of 5, where 5 is the maximum score and employees are required to repeat the training following possible.
Of those companies surveyed, 76% have a each update.
Over 126,700 employees have completed dedicated privacy lead and 79% have trained all of their our anti-bribery and corruption training and 124,960 people on data security and privacy in addition to Group have completed our ethics training since the last update training, which is an increase of over 20% from 2015. in summer 2016.
164 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review We expect associate companies those in which we hold a on-site training for our central Commercial and Procurement minority stake and affiliate companies preferred partners to Services Team on the risks and issues of modern slavery.
whom we may refer business to adopt ethical standards that We are providing guidance and support to our are consistent with our own.
operating companies to help them comply with the UKs We have a Group-level committee that meets regularly Modern Slavery Act.
to discuss ethical and compliance issues and new risk areas.
During 2017, we will publish our first annual slavery Committee members include the Group chief counsel, deputy and human trafficking statement in response to the Modern general counsel, litigation and compliance, Group finance Slavery Act that will contain more information on our director, the head of talent and the head of sustainability.
This will be publicly available on our website.
Employees can report concerns or suspected cases of misconduct in confidence through our third partyLiving wage managed Right to Speak facility, overseen by our internal audit department.
We support the principle that all workers should be paid enough to provide a decent standard of living.
This Human rights principle is known as the living wage.
In the UK, the Living Wage Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation, Respect for human rights is a fundamental principle for calculates the voluntary living wage which exceeds the UKs WPP.
In our business activities we aim to prevent, identify statutory national living wage.
and address negative impacts on human rights and we look The vast majority of our people already earn for opportunities to positively promote and support human significantly above the voluntary living wage rate.
However, rights, including childrens rights.
Our Human Rights wage rates in our supply chain may be lower.
It is our policy Policy Statement, published in 2015, summarises our for WPP, the parent company, and all our UK companies, approach to human rights as an employer, in our supply to pay the voluntary living wage set by the Living Wage chain and through our work for clients.
It reflects Foundation to all employees and all on-site contractors such international standards and principles, including the as cleaning, security and catering staff in the UK.
Our International Bill of Human Rights, the UNs Guiding policy is to only offer paid internships and apprenticeships.
Principles on Business and Human Rights, the International Labour Organizations Declaration on Fundamental Ethical decisions in our work Principles and Rights at Work and the Childrens Rights and Business Principles.
Our work for clients can sometimes raise ethical issues, Our companies help to promote progress on human for example, work for government clients, work relating rights issues through pro bono work for human rights to sensitive products or marketing to children.
We train our people on a number of human review and referral process for work that may present an rights issues through scenarios in our ethics training.
Before accepting potentially sensitive work, We are members of the United Nations Global Compact employees are required to elevate the decision to the most and committed to making progress against its 10 principles.
senior person in the relevant office and then to the most We report on our performance in our Sustainability Report.
senior executive of the WPP company in the country concerned, who will decide if further referral to a WPP Modern Slavery Act executive is required.
Employees are trained on this referral process during our ethics training.
We do not tolerate any form of modern slavery, forced labour or human trafficking in any part of our business Supply chain or supply chain.
As part of our due diligence processes we have assessed the risk of modern slavery for WPP.
We aim to work with supplier partners who meet high This found the risk of modern slavery to be very low in standards in areas such as ethical conduct, labour our direct workforce and among our strategic tier-one standards and environmental management.
This reduces suppliers, those with whom we have a direct contractual risks for WPP and our clients.
In early 2017, we conducted compulsory of our supply base we can identify opportunities to consolidate procurement and reduce costs.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 165 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review We evaluate potential new suppliers on factors such Our progress in 2016: as assurance of supply, quality, service, cost, innovation Our footprint per employee was 1.86 tonnes of CO e, 2 and sustainability.
Supplier partners are expected to adopt down 10% on 2015 and 45% lower than 2006. standards that are consistent with our own.
These are set Our footprint per million of revenue was 17.36 tonnes out in the supplier version of the WPP Code of Business of CO e, down 20% on 2015 and 62% lower than 2006.
2 Conduct, which explains how our own Code should be Our absolute carbon footprint was 249,782 tonnes applied by companies in our supply chain.
All new supplier CO e 2015: 264,774 tonnes CO e. 2 2 partners are asked to sign a copy of the Code to confirm they We made significant progress in 2016 and are close to will comply with our social and environmental standards.
meeting our 2020 target of 1.8 tonnes of CO e. This is due 2 We have identified two areas of our supply chain where to a number of factors, including: changes in carbon breaches of our Code could have a potentially significant emissions factors for scope 2 emissions in some countries, impact on WPPs reputation or that of our clients reflecting an increase in the percentage of lower-carbon and advertising production and data management.
We are renewable energy used to power national grids: an increase working more closely with supplier partners in these areas in the amount of Renewable Energy Certificates RECs that to identify and manage risks.
Over the last four years we purchase in the US, with enough RECs purchased to 2013-2016 we have assessed 236 suppliers covering nearly offset 41% of the electricity utilised by WPP companies in 236 million in annual spend or approximately 15% of our the US during 2016: and improvements in our office energy total spend on advertising production and data management.
efficiency and a drop in business air travel.
More details are available in our Sustainability Report.
Carbon intensity 2006-2016 Tonnes CO e Environment 2 45.56 4 50 We aim for WPP to be a low-carbon and resource-efficient Group.
This reduces costs, enhances our credibility as 40 3 advisors to clients, enables us to meet the environmental 3.39 30 1.86 1.80 requirements included in many client tender processes and 2 20 supports employee engagement.
1 Our target is to reduce carbon emissions to 1.8 tonnes 17.36 10 of CO e per employee by 2020, a 47% reduction from 2006.
Our strategy focuses on: Headcount intensity tonnes per employee o Office energy use: Improving the energy efficiency of Target headcount intensity our buildings and IT systems.
18% of our total floor space Revenue intensity tonnes per m revenue o approx.
4.4 million square feet is now certified to advanced green building standards, such as LEED and BREEAM.
We aim to have 25% of our floor space certified to these standards by 2020.
Carbon footprint in 2016 Air travel: Reducing non-essential flights.
We offset % the equivalent of 100% of emissions from our business Stationary fuel combustion 3% Purchased electricity 47% air travel, by supporting renewable energy generation Business air travel 37% projects in fast-growing economies.
Our video conferencing Other estimated impacts 13% network now incorporates more than 720 units in over 173 cities.
Renewable energy: Around 22% of the total electricity we purchase is generated from renewable sources, including green-tariff electricity and renewable energy certificates.
166 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Tonnes per employee Tonnes per m revenue
