OUR PEOPLE AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY People are at the heart ofourbusiness We are an exciting and fast-paced organisation, passionate about hiring and retaining the very best talent to help us succeed.
We offer competitive salaries and benefits information which may be of concern to them Team We are committed to investing in our people and carry out regular internal remuneration as employees.
We also conduct staffsurveys benchmarking across the business to ensure to gauge engagement levels andmotivation and providing them with opportunities to succeed with their career development.
that our employees are rewarded appropriately.
and provide an additional opportunity for We also feel that every colleague is unique staff to offer feedback andsuggestions.
InSeptember of this year, we moved our three London-based teams to a single new office and one size definitely does not fit all at ZPG.
We respect human rights and the integrity We reflect this in our extensive range of location near Tower Bridge, providing them ofindividuals and comply with all relevant with a world-class office environment.
The new employee benefits that we offer to everyone laws in the way we run the business.
inour business and we listen to our employees space has given us the opportunity to create a purpose-built environment that brings our to continually adopt new and innovative Charitable activity suggestions, creating packages designed teams under one roof as well as enabling us At ZPG we feel passionately about giving the opportunity to build a creative and fun forour employees needs.
We genuinely want back and have been proud supporters of to provide benefits that our colleagues value, space that we can all call home.
We now ThePrinces Trust and Only Connect over the have a great combination of working spaces, that encourage their involvement in the last three years.
During 2016 the Group donated Groups performance and that they find meeting spaces and relaxation spaces, genuinely a total of 39,529 to charity 2015: 52,707 in creating a home away from home for our useful throughout the different stages of their addition to amounts raised by our employees.
Some of the benefits we offer are more almost 500 London-based employees.
Under our payroll giving scheme, employees traditional such as private health insurance, can donate tax efficiently to a charity directly We take our colleagues wellbeing and season ticket loans or childcare vouchers through their pre-tax salary.
The Group then development seriously and aim to support through to Help to Buy, Move, Improve your matches donations up to a specific amount.
everyone so that they understand how to reach home loans or perhaps celebrating your The Group also donates up to 100 to a their full potential.
We have an in-house gym birthday by taking an additional days holiday registered charity linked to an employees and fitness studio with training instructors to on us through to shopping discounts or our personal fundraising activities or up to 250 ensure everyone has a fitness plan that works Share Incentive Scheme which we match by for fundraising for one of our Group charities.
We have also employed an in-house giving staff a free matching share for each Employees may also take one days paid leave Group L&D Manager who has created learning share purchased.
every year to donate their time to a charity.
programmes to support our diverse population We hold regular Group-wide meetings to of colleagues.
We have changed our performance Recently a team of more than 30 of our review programme and built a new performance drive communication within the Group, share colleagues took part in Tough Mudder, a the financial and economic factors affecting the tool kit ensuring we have bespoke frameworks gruelling 10 mile run and obstacle course.
that our colleagues, managers, leaders and performance of the Group, recognise employees They raised over 10,500 for The Princes for their performance in the workplace and sponsors can tailor to fit their specific needs Trust through this one event alone.
to have ongoing and meaningful day-to-day offer a forum where employees can present questions to the Groups CEO.
We have a feedback and career planning meetings with their colleagues.
We offer a range of in-house dedicated HR portal for employees which allows them to book and manage their holiday programmes that meet both our colleagues and business needs and help us continue to and view details on pay, benefits and other build the talent within our teams.
The strong culture of innovation and transparency within the Group has helped usto continue to attract high calibre staff, maintain a strong retention rate of key employees and create a workforce that is dedicated to delivering high quality products and services.
We are constantly investing inour people to ensure that this continues and provide constant opportunities for employees to upgrade and transfer their skillsin the workplace.
We love to see our colleagues develop and have numerous success stories of people who have joined usin one role and then developed into other TOUGH MUDDER areas of our business.
The team raised over 10,500 for The Princes Trust through this one event alone!
36|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Committed to investing in our team Lucy joined our Comparison Services division insights data, and since their discussion Lucy has in April2015 to cover reception as an interim been supported by Sarah in developing inthose whilst focusing on her studies outside of work.
Lucy says her confidence It quickly became apparent to the Company, hasgrown since starting her career with us, and aswell as Lucy, that she was a great cultural she is incredibly proactive in her learning.
Lucy fitand we wanted her to stay with us on a mentioned shes looking forward to spending permanent basis.
Lucy accepted the role and some time with one of our analysts shortly to continued to demonstrate strong capabilities work through Excel as she would like to be a which resulted in just over a year later her littlemore proficient when using this tool.
being internally approached regarding an After that Lucy is looking to undertake some operational role within the Energy team Masterclasses with some of our senior experts something Lucy had previously hinted she to learn how to use specific programs.
Her would like to get involvedin.
advice to anyone at ZPG who wishes to develop Currently, Lucy is enjoying her position as our their career would be to take and embrace as Energy Operations Executive and is continually many opportunities as possible!
developing her skillset through support from When asked for her thoughts on the Company, her experienced team and line manager, Sarah.
Lucy replied: Great place, great culture and In Lucys review with Sarah, she expressed areally fun place to work.
herinterest in areas such as front office and OUR PEOPLE AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Social responsibility Equal opportunities and diversity Gender diversity % The uSwitch Community Events team attends We are committed to ensuring that there local events run by various organisations, areequal opportunities and diversity in our providing information and explaining the employment policies and practices, including, options available for getting a better energy but not limited to, recruitment, selection, 20% 80% deal.
It provides energy saving tips, answers training, promotion, pay rates, discipline 2 8 questions about the energy market and runs anddismissal.
We believe that recruiting, Directors presentations about our services and also incentivising and retaining the best talent provides a one-to-one service to community iskey to our success and that this involves 10 members.
This service is complimentary and, treating everyone equally regardless of their during the past year, the Community Events age, sexual orientation, parental responsibilities, team covered most of the heavily populated disability, race, nationality, ethnic origin, areas in England, attending 69 events.
We membership of a trade union, religion, belief have also built a strong relationship providing or gender.
This includes giving full and fair 13% 87% training programmes via Citizens Advice, consideration to applications for employment 1 7 educating the staff on the energy market made by disabled persons and continuing andhow to compare suppliers, leaving them theemployment of, and arranging Executive fully informed and empowered to educate appropriate training, career development Management Team consumers on staying in control of their energy andthe opportunity for promotion for, 8 costs.
Since January 2016 we have attended anyofthe Groups employees who are, 30 Citizens Advice training sessions.
So far the feedback we have received regarding In the Mayors 2020 Vision for London he our training work and the advice we provide pledged to make the Living Wage the norm customers has been exceptional.
One elderly across the capital.
Although we recognise customer we met at an Age UK centre in St Ives thisis not compulsory we are committed to 37% 63% was unaware of the fact she could switch her ensuring that all our colleagues are appropriately 266 459 All other energy supplier.
We provided her with our remunerated and we have ensured that all employees Freepost envelope and our energy switching our London staff are paid at least in line with FAQ flyer.
She later called us to say she saved the London Living Wage.
The Age UK centre in St Ives Health and safety is a wonderful example of the valuable advice We are committed to maintaining a safe that we provide customers.
After our first visit workplace for our employees and ensuring there, we were invited to visit three more times that staff have the appropriate training and over a period of just four months.
working conditions to perform their work Male Female In addition to the above we also partner with safely.
It is therefore our policy that all of the community centres, charities, councils, housing Groups facilities, products and services comply associations and MPs to help promote the in all material respects with applicable laws benefits of energy switching and help save and regulations governing safety and quality.
consumers money on their energy bills.
OUR VALUES Our shared values bind us together.
PASSIONATE AGILE Taking pride in our Moving fast and workandvision inafocusedfashion Our vision and passion drive the We make quick decisions to decisions we make, the products innovate and stay ahead of the we create and the services competition.
38|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Strategic report We have measured our greenhouse gas Environment and greenhouse gas emissions We continue to support energy efficiency emissions using emissions factors from the CO2 emissions UK Government Conversion Factors for Tonnes CO e throughout our business activities and remain 2 conscious of mitigating any negative impact Company Reporting.
The period covered is that of the financial year to 30 September 2016. we may have on the environment.
Comparatives for 2015 have been calculated 751 As an online property portal and home services on a consistent basis.
CO emissions include 2 switching platform, we naturally operate without the impact of acquisitions from the date of intensive production processes, use of packaging acquisition.
In order to provide an intensity 16 443 308 or the need to print out substantial amounts ratio for our emissions disclosure, we have of paper, a practice which we will continue 15 343 240 calculated our greenhouse gas emissions tomaintain.
A number of sales employees peremployee.
The Directors believe that the areprovided with company cars to allow number of employees is the best indicator for them to meet clients within designated a group of this size for the purposes of this Emissions per employee geographies: however, the majority of disclosure.
The number of employees used Tonnes CO e employees are office based.
2 isthe average number of full-time employees over the measurement period.
The Group also operates a Bike-to-Work scheme, which offers our employees an 1.3 incentive to travel to and from work in an environmentally friendly way and our new This Strategic report was approved by the Board office includes secure storage for over 16 0.8 0.5 of Directors and signed on its behalf by: 50bikes.
15 1.1 0.8 Since 1 October 2013, the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 has required all UK quoted Scope 1 Scope 2 companies to report on their greenhouse gasemissions as part of their annual Alex Chesterman directors report.
Founder & CEO A report on our output of greenhouse gas 29 November 2016 emissions shows that, when compared with other companies of a comparable size, the Groups activities produce a very low impact on the environment.
The Groups scope 1 and 2 emissions for the year to 30 September 2016 are set out below.
Scope 1 emissions relate to the Groups fleetof vehicles, which are used by certain employees for business purposes.
Scope 2 emissions relate to the Groups electricity andgas usage.
This information is set out inthe chart opposite.
COLLABORATIVE ENTREPRENEURIAL Supporting each Being creative and owningit We use our initiative, make otherasoneteam We support each other and work decisions and spend money likeitis our own and we never as a team to enable us all to achieve our goals and win.
Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|39
