Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Our people The people behind our business Our people are behind every aspect of our strategy and execution, so it is important that we attract, develop and retain exceptional people whoare empowered to use their best judgement in every situation.
Building a high-performing culture This year we employed an average of 108,000 Increasing employee Training and developing people from 138 countries as well as over engagement future leaders 26,000 contractors.
Our senior leadership We engage our employees on issues We empower our people to contribute to our team includes 21 nationalities, bringing related to our strategy, our people agenda, business success by tailoring their training and together a diverse set of experiences and our products and services and changes development to their individual capabilities opinions to help us achieve our goals by better happening in the Company in a variety of ways, and ambitions.
We provide a combination understanding the needs of our customers.
including executive video updates, events of formal training, on the job experiences, and forums, our intranet, emails, texts, as well and regular feedback from managers.
Focusing on our customers as through individual team leaders.
This year we trained around 50,000 people Over the last year more than 14,000 retail Every year all our employees are invited through our global academies which store managers and sales advisers received to participate in a global survey which enable our employees to develop world training in the Vodafone Way of Retail allows us to measure engagement class capabilities within their core discipline programme.
To date, more than 31,000 retail levels, identify ways to improve how and support their career development.
customer service employees and third-party we do things, and compare ourselves These academies have won several industry staff have received training to enhance the with 30 other large companies.
This year awards for innovation and quality.
services provided to our customers.
We have our engagement index, which measures standardised the recruitment process across Our global employee survey showed that 80% how committed our employees are, their all of our local markets to improve the of employees feel they can learn the skills and desire to continue working for us and quality of new recruits to our stores and have knowledge to do their jobs well.
their willingness to recommend Vodafone developed a new assessment approach for all as an employer, increased by two points We conduct regular talent reviews to identify customer facing employees.
to 79, which is three points higher than other high-potential future leaders.
Each year Our Group and local market senior leadership comparable companies.
we provide 60 of those with the opportunity teams took part in the Customer Experience for an accelerated development through our Our employee net promoter score, which Leadership programme a two-day Inspire programme.
The programme offers indicates employees commitment workshop focused on listening to customers, development and executive coaching and may to promoting our products and services, rose external best practices, driving simplicity, include an assignment to another Vodafone eight points to 59 17 points higher than other and action planning.
The increase showed the growing levels of employee confidence that Project Spring and our Customer eXperience eXcellence programme are delivering.
Making progress on Diversity and Inclusion We are committed to treating all employees This year, our CEO, Vittorio Colao, signed fairly and offering equal opportunities in all up to be a UN HeforShe Impact Champion, aspects of employment and advancement.
making significant commitments to gender This years global employee survey showed equality for Vodafone.
37,000 colleagues, that 89% of employees believe that suppliers, and customers have already Vodafone treats people fairly.
joined the campaign, which promotes gender equality socially, economically Last year we launched a new global and politically.
maternity policy, providing mandatory minimum maternity benefits, including In 2015 we developed a new unconscious 16weeks of full pay followed by full pay bias training for all leadership teams fora 30-hour week for the first six months to highlight the key decisions and everyday after employees return to work.
situations that may be affected by bias.
In addition, employee networks in the areas of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender LGBT, disability and gender have expanded globally and these serve a critical purpose in supporting these communities.
18 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Our Discover programme for graduates This year we launched a mobile app and Employees by location % accelerates the careers of high performing website so employees can access topics such graduates, with over 700 people recruited as anti-bribery, conflict of interest, speak up, Spain 5% Italy 6% onto this programme during the year.
After privacy, security and competition law via their Vodacom theprogramme, a number of Discovers join phone when they are out of the office.
Other 7% an international programme, Columbus 33% with the purpose of building leadership skills Creating a safe place to work Germany through a challenging two-year assignment 14% We want everyone working with Vodafone outside of their home market.
employees and contractors to return home safely every day.
We start with the wellbeing Recognising performance of our employees: we launched our third India 20% UK 15% We reward people based on their performance, annual Global Wellbeing Challenge on World potential and contribution to our success.
Around 5,000 1 Monthly average employees number This year, we simplified the process by directly employees took part in a wide range 2014 92,812 empowering our line managers to make of exercise activities including cycling, dancing, performance decisions without a higher running, swimming, and Zumba.
they covered a total of over 245,507 miles 2016 107,667 equivalent to going around the world 10 times.
We continue to benchmark roles regularly to ensure competitive, fair remuneration For our safety campaign we focus on our Employee engagement index in every country in which we operate.
We also top five risks: occupational road risk, working 2014 77 offer competitive retirement and other benefit with electricity, working at height, control 2015 77 provisions which vary depending on conditions of contractors, and laying cables in the ground.
and practices in local markets.
Our efforts start at the top and our senior 2016 79 executives are personally involved, we train Global short-term incentive plans are offered our people and suppliers, and we participate to a large percentage of employees and Employee turnover rate % in best practice sharing withindustry partners.
global long-term incentive plans are offered 2014 15 to our senior managers.
Our incentive Despite all our efforts, we deeply regret 2 2015 18 arrangements are subject to company that 12 people lost their lives during the performance measures, comprising both year.
Traffic accidents involving contractors 2016 19 financial and strategic metrics, and individual in India and Africa continue to be our main performance measures.
We have robust policies and Nationalities in top senior processes to manage risks, and if incidents leadershiproles During the year we introduced a Customer occur we work hard to identify and address Appreciation metric into our Global short- 2014 24 the root causes.
For more on Health term incentive plan.
See page 57 for more & Safety read our sustainability report 2015 24 on remuneration.
com sustainability 2016 21 Doing whats right Gender of employees % We recognise that ethical conduct is just as important as high performance, 1,700 and failure to operate ethically will impact women went on maternity leave this our business success.
Our Code of Conduct year and were eligible for our new global Female Male sets out our business principles and what 36% 64% maternity policy we expect from employees to ensure they protect themselves as well as the Companys reputation and assets.
Notes: 1 Employee numbers are shown on a full time employee basis.
A statutory view is provided on page 140.
2 There were 12 fatalities, one was an employee, three were 19 members of the public and eight were contractors.
