Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Sustainable business Sustainable business Mobile and digital technologies are a powerful social good, enhancing citizens understanding of, and ability to participate in, the world around them, and transforming the workplace, boosting productivity for businesses of all sizes in everyindustry.
A new strategic approach Our businesses play an integral role in the In parallel, we will focus our ongoing corporate Energy innovation and daily lives of our more than 462 million mobile transparency programme on those aspects greenhouse gas emissions customers and are a vital part of the national of our business that are the source of greatest There is clear evidence that global infrastructure upon which the economies public debate and concern, specifically: temperatures are rising quickly and a very of our countries of operation depend.
a Taxation and total economic strong consensus among scientists and During 2016, we developed a new sustainable contribution, building on our existing policymakers that carbon dioxide emissions business strategy to ensure an even closer commitment to transparency in from hydrocarbon fuels such as coal, oil and alignment between our core commercial corporate taxation including country-bygas together with other greenhouse gases goals and the maximum possible social country reporting are having a direct impact on the climate.
and economic benefits achievable at scale a Supply chain integrity and safety, The information, communications and as a consequence of those goals.
providing insights into our efforts to ensure technology ICT industry requires significant Under that strategy, we have identified three responsible and ethical behaviour among amounts of electricity to connect billions areas where we believe our business activities our suppliers and sub-suppliers and of people, devices and machines and can have the greatest positive societal impact: to ensure safety in our operations transmit vast amounts of data every second.
Most power is supplied on-grid by national a Womens empowerment, extending a Mobile, masts and health, addressing power generation companies whose the benefits of mobile to more women public concern regarding electromagnetic predominant energy source is hydrocarbons, in emerging markets while striving frequency EMF emissions from mobile especially coal.
Telecommunications operators to become the worlds best employer for phones and base stations also rely on hydrocarbons in the form women by 2025 a Digital rights and freedoms, building of diesel used in on-site generators to power a Energy innovation, optimising energy on our commitment to transparency in law infrastructure off-grid in remote locations efficiency in, and reducing greenhouse gas enforcement assistance, censorship, privacy or areas of unreliable on-grid power.
emissions from, our activities while helping and data protection matters Vodafone is a signatory to the Paris Pledge our customers reduce their own emissions for Action which recognises that climate We are also committed to explaining how a Youth skills and jobs, using our change threatens future generations and we put our principles into practice to ensure technologies and expertise to help young calls for strong action to reduce emissions that our businesses operate responsibly.
adults enhance their skills and secure job and achieve a safe and stable climate in which Further details of our approach are set opportunities in countries with high levels temperature rises are limited to well below out in the Groups annual Sustainable of youth unemployment 2C.
Our networks account for most of the Business Report, published on the same energy consumption in our businesses and are dayas this Report.
therefore the main source of our greenhouse gas emissions.
As customer demand for data increases every year, our power requirements also grow: energy efficiency programmes and, consequently, emissions reduction are therefore an important priority.
We collaborate closely with our major equipment suppliers to ensure that energy efficiency is integral to the design specification for new infrastructure.
We have deployed highly efficient Single Radio Access Network SRAN technologies which allow 2G, 3G Connecting women to healthcare and 4G services to be run from a single piece In 2016, 164,000 women subscribed to Vodafone Turkeys health and wellbeing of equipment at more than 211,800 sites.
SMS service which sends twice-weekly We are also exploring a number of on-grid and texts offering information and advice about off-grid renewable energy options.
prenatal, antenatal and infant care and womens health.
An interactive app with information about child development has 20 also been downloaded 160,000 times.
Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Our total greenhouse gas emissions in 2016 Human Rights Greenhouse gas GHG emissions were 4% higher than in 2015 at 2.57 million million tonnes of CO2e Communications technologies play tonnes of CO e carbon dioxide equivalent, 2 an important role in underpinning human 2014 0.34 2.04 2.38 as a consequence of a 71% increase rights, enabling citizens to share information 2015 0.37 2.10 2.47 in the volume of data carried across our and exercise freedom of expression.
However, our measure 2016 0.41 2.16 2.57 many governments are concerned that of greenhouse gas efficiency improved these technologies are also empowering Scope 1 emissions over which we have direct control greatly: annual greenhouse gas emissions Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity people intent on harm, such as criminals and Total of Scope 1 and Scope 2 per petabyte of data carried by our mobile terrorists: conversely, civil society groups are Note: networks were 40% lower than in 2015, concerned that state actions to address the Calculated using local market actual or estimated data dropping to an average of 1,900 tonnes CO e 2 sourced from invoices, purchasing requisitions, direct malign use of communications technologies data measurement and estimations.
have the effect of eroding the individuals right calculated in line with GHG Protocol standards.
The 2014 and 2015 values have been re-based in accordance to privacy.
Our technologies and services also provide with revised Scope 2 guidance.
Scope 2 emissions are our customers with the means to make reported using the market-based methodology.
For full Human rights that extend in to the digital methodology see our Sustainable Business Report 2016. a meaningful reduction in their own emissions, realm are important priorities for Vodafone most notably through the deployment as can be seen in our Law Enforcement Greenhouse gas emissions per petabyte of Internet of Things IoT applications Disclosure Report.
However, we are also of data carried by our mobile networks a field in which we are the worlds leading fully mindful of other human rights risks tonnes of CO e 2 mobile provider.
Using network intelligence in our operations as our Code of Conduct 2014 8,200 to optimise energy use in a wide variety makes clear which are the focus of senior of machines, devices and processes could 2015 3,100 management scrutiny across all of our account for a 20% reduction in projected 2016 1,900 businesses.
These include labour rights global CO e emissions by 2030 enabling 2 particularly with regard to our supply chain 1 Note: emissions to remain at 2015 levels.
Figures include all data carried by our mobile networks and economic, social and cultural rights.
with an adjustment to include only part of the data In 2015, we announced a new goal under carried in India, where only base stations under Details of our principles, rules and compliance which we would seek to help our customers Vodafones operational control are included in our programmes in response to those risks are set greenhouse gas emissions totals.
reduce their CO e emissions by two tonnes for 2 out in our annual Sustainable Business Report every one tonne of emissions from our own including a statement as stipulated under the Ratio of GHG emission savings for operations.
We aim to achieve that goal by the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 summarising customers to our own GHG footprint end of March 2018.
As of the end of March our actions to address the risk of modern 2014 1.19 2016, we were well on track to do so, helping slavery within our own operations and those our customers to save 1.74 tonnes of CO e 2 2015 1.41 of our suppliers and sub-suppliers.
The Report for every tonne of CO e generated through 2 also provides details of our ongoing work with 2016 1.74 our activities.
our suppliers and other industry stakeholders 2018 Target 2.00 to improve ethical, labour and environmental We estimate that more than 30% of the Note: standards across our supply chain.
38 million IoT connections operated 2014 figures have been extrapolated from actuals for 2013 and 2015.
Emissions savings for by Vodafone directly enable our customers customers have been calculated based on GeSIs ICT to reduce their emissions.
The total emissions Enablement Methodology.
avoided as a consequence of our IoT technologies and services in 2016 increased by 29%, over the same period in 2015, to reach 4.5 million tonnes CO e. 2 We provide further details of our approach to energy innovation in our annual Sustainable Business Report.
Our Sustainable Business Report 2016: www.
com sustainability Note: report2016 1 Smarter Report 2030, Global e-Sustainability Initiative 21 GeSI June 2015.
