Corporate social responsibility The Group is a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange We are committed to doing business responsibly and SEDEX, which enables us to measure and improve upon our acknowledge that The Restaurant Group has a significant ethical business practices across our supply chain.
We require role to play in the communities and the wider environment in all of our suppliers to be registered and risk assessed with which we operate.
This report sets out the principal areas of SEDEX.
All suppliers must also meet the requirements of our focus and activity for 2016 in the areas of nutrition, sustainable Responsible Sourcing Policy which has been introduced to and ethical sourcing, nurturing and developing our employees, our direct suppliers and disseminated throughout each supply engaging with our communities and reducing the chain.
environmental impact of the Group on the wider environment.
As in previous years, no genetically modified foods or artificial Sustainable and ethical sourcing trans fats are used in any of our products and we have The Group practices responsible sourcing throughout its banned colours that cause hyperactivity in children from our supply chain ensuring its customers get food that is great childrens menus.
quality, high welfare and sustainable.
Responsibility Deal partnership All of our suppliers must be certified to the British Retail Since 2011 the Company has been a partner of the Public Consortium Food standard or equivalent as a minimum and Health Responsibility Deal the Responsibility Deal, launched we conduct routine supplier audits ourselves to ensure our by the Department of Health.
As a result of the Responsibility suppliers are operating to our high standards.
Deal we have made many positive changes from tackling underage alcohol sales and salt reduction to supporting We are committed to sourcing sustainable fish and as such physical activity amongst children.
The Responsibility Deal has introduced a detailed policy in 2016, within which we commit been established to tap into the potential for businesses and to source Marine Stewardship Council certified fish where other organisations to improve public health through their available.
We also work with our suppliers and farmers both influence over food, alcohol, physical activity and health in the UK and non-UK to provide further emphasis and guidance on workplace.
Being a Responsibility Deal partner means that the farm-antibiotic use.
We commit to sourcing all our shell eggs Company is required to monitor and provide regular updates and mayonnaise from cage-free and or free-range sources by to the Department of Health with regard to the actions we are the end of 2017 and furthermore we commit that eggs used taking to fulfil our commitments within each pledge.
as an ingredient in our supply chain will be cage-free and or free-range by the end of 2023.
Work is already underway to The Company has eight pledges within the Responsibility achieve this goal.
Deal: we have achieved the 2012 salt targets for the products we procure: we are now working towards the 2017 salt targets, further reducing the salt levels at ingredient level: All of our suppliers we have achieved our pledge to procure over 50% of the volume of products within the guidelines by 2017.
By December 2016 91% of our products were within the must be certified guidelines: we removed all artificial trans fats from our products in 2008 to the British and continue to monitor all new products to ensure ongoing compliance: Retail Consortium we commit to offering a healthy choice for our customers and offer a free side of vegetables with all kids meals in most of our restaurants: Food standard or equivalent 14 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements we commit to tackling underage alcohol sales by operating Childrens menus Challenge 21 in all our establishments and Challenge 25 in Many of our brands are family-friendly and we want to ensure Scotland: eating out at our restaurants is enjoyable for both adults and children.
All of our brands offer childrens menus, excluding a we commit to foster a culture of responsible drinking.
We always offer a free We offer very low alcohol beer and a wide range of alcohol side of vegetables, salad or baked beans with our kids meals free mocktails, soft drinks and milkshakes.
Many of our which help them on their way to five a day.
In 2016 we created Concessions restaurants also offer a low alcohol wine our nutrition framework which is based on the guideline daily option: and amounts of calorie, salt and sugar for children.
The aim of the framework is to ensure that our menus are balanced, offering Frankie & Bennys have a long history of sponsoring local indulgent and healthier options.
junior sports teams providing kits for the teams and support at matches.
Physical activity and nutrition Frankie & Bennys sponsors local junior sports teams across Healthier options the UK.
Sponsorship takes the form of funding for sports kit, The nutritional balance of menus is incorporated into the programmes and other equipment, support at events and design process and we are committed to increasing the team meals throughout the year.
Our restaurants regularly number of lower calorie, salt and sugar options available on host events for the teams and their families and supporters.
Our nutrition policy challenges us to always This initiative forms a core part of the Frankie & Bennys have a number of healthy choices on our menus.
eating is a personal responsibility but the Group acknowledges that as a provider of food and drink we have As part of this strategy we also run free pizza-making visits a role to play in providing appropriate options from which for schools.
We aim to get kids excited about cooking, whilst our guests may choose when they eat out.
learning some useful skills and covering topics in the KS1 and KS2 syllabus.
We are passionate about our food and learning The Company strongly believes that we should offer our about where it comes from and we want to inspire the same guests menu choices.
Whilst we do not wish to be enthusiasm in kids when they come to visit us.
prescriptive, we aim to provide a healthy choice at each menu point, alongside more indulgent options.
For many people, Allergens dining out is a treat and therefore normal restrictions which Frankie & Bennys and Chiquito offer a Coeliac UK accredited may be applied to healthy eating on a day-to-day basis may Gluten Free menu to cater for those with a gluten allergy or be waived in favour of their enjoyment and experience.
In 2017 Frankie & Bennys will be offering its first Frankie & Bennys we highlight a range of lighter options for gluten free burgers and pizzas.
our customers which are under 350 calories for starters and under 600 calories for mains and, although not necessarily Our allergen information is available online on our brand calorie marked on the menu, we always try to offer healthy websites which allows us to provide accurate information to choices in all of our brands.
our guests and can be updated daily.
It allows guests to create their own bespoke menu based on their particular allergies, Salt intolerances or vegetarian and vegan preferences.
This goes We have reduced the amount of salt in our bespoke products above and beyond the minimum requirement for legislation purchased directly from suppliers in-line with the Department and we hope makes the experience of eating out easier for of Healths Public Health Responsibility Deal for 2017.
we removed one tonne of salt from our food by reformulating the recipes whilst ensuring we keep our food flavoursome.
There are some products where we are unable to reduce the salt further.
Our bacon, for example, requires salt from a food safety perspective.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 15 Corporate social responsibility continued Serving alcohol responsibly The Restaurant Group is committed to being a fair and We operate Challenge 25 in Scotland and Challenge 21 in inclusive employer.
Employment with TRG offers everyone England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
In 2016 we became equal rights regardless of age, race, gender, sexual the first casual dining business to support Drinkaware and orientation, disability or religion.
We ensure as far as possible all leisure menus launched after August 2016 display the that the diversity of our teams reflects the diversity of the Drinkaware logo to promote responsible drinking.
We offer customers we serve.
very low alcohol beer and a wide range of alcohol free mocktails, soft drinks and milkshakes across all our brands.
Our policies and employee handbook reflect this commitment Many of our Concessions restaurants also offer a low alcohol to equality and human rights which are discussed in the wine option.
The various management skills courses offered cover the responsibilities of the management Food safety team in upholding these policies to ensure a safe and The health and safety of our customers and employees is respectful working environment.
of paramount importance to us.
The Group has extensive procedures to ensure we mitigate risks to our guests and The Group pays all of its employees at least the National teams as far as possible.
We have very clear procedures and Minimum Wage or for over 25s the National Living Wage standards in place and to enforce these we employ external appropriate to their age.
Tips are not included in this rate, auditors from NSF International UK Ltd to perform a rolling all gratuities are additional to their hourly rate and are paid programme of independent safety audits and carry out directly to the employees.
Cash tips are self-declared, only benchmarking of our restaurants.
the tips paid by credit card have tax deducted by the Company and, unlike some of our competitors, no card As at 31 December 2016, over 96% of our restaurants scored processing administration fee is taken by the Company.
4 stars or above including pass in Scotland under the Food Hygiene Rating Scheme, a sign of excellence in both food safety and hygiene with 86% at 5 stars or a pass in Scotland.
We have invested significant time and resources in health and safety matters across the Group to further enhance the clean, safe environment for our customers and staff.
Our people We believe that our most important assets are our people and our team is one of which we are especially proud.
With over 15,700 employees at the end of December 2016 our focus is identifying and growing talent, supporting our managers to develop their own careers within the Group and to build great teams.
During 2016 the Group successfully opened a further 24 restaurants and pubs creating hundreds of new jobs within local communities.
Following a review of our estate we also took the difficult decision to close 37 sites.
We were, however, able to redeploy and retain many of the employees from these sites with less than 15% being made redundant.
16 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Following feedback from the previous employee engagement Online learning and workshops survey on the desire for more communication from the Everyone in the Company has access to our FLOW eLearning business, 2016 saw the introduction of new employee centre which holds a host of learning materials that support engagement and communication apps across the business.
employees from the first day with the Company.
There is a Initial usage levels in terms of the number of employees comprehensive induction programme as well as career downloading the app onto their personal devices and then development options.
We cover topics ranging from health using it to read and comment on business messages has and safety and allergens through to how to be a great coach been largely encouraging.
We need, however, to ensure the and leader.
45,000 eLearning modules are completed each communications remain relevant and interesting to our largely year on the FLOW system.
millennial population: there will be further development of the messaging this year, with closer links to marketing campaigns We also recognise the importance of face-to-face learning and menu changes and the opportunity to reward our teams and we facilitate over 180 workshops a year which are run by for great sales or great suggestions through incentives and our in-house teams.
This gives our management teams from competitions.
across the different brands the chance to learn from each other, share best practice and build on their development In 2016, we reported 76 accidents under the Reporting of plans.
Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013: a reduction on our 2015 figures, with no deaths or For our Senior Leaders, we are members of the Henley dangerous occurrences.
Business School Partnership which provides access to the latest thinking on a wide range of Leadership topics, facilitated Nurturing and developing our people by some innovative thinkers from across all industries.
We have a dedicated Learning and Development team whose aim is to ensure all our employees are the best they can be.
Managers in Training We have designed a wide range of development tools and All new managers into our restaurants are enrolled on an activities linked to career paths both front and back of house, MIT Manager in Training programme.
This gives them a thus providing opportunity for everyone to progress their structured pathway to be a successful manager with us.
It hospitality career with The Restaurant Group.
covers all aspects of operational management and hospitality, as well as leading and developing a great team and is We have a great track record of promoting from within and designed to reflect the culture and values of the business.
of building great careers for our people.
During 2016, 350 of our employees were promoted internally which is more than New managers work in specifically approved training centres half of all managerial recruitment, the internal promotion rate and are supported by their line manager and the Learning is already as high as 75% for General Manager roles in our and Development team through on the job learning, regular pub business.
We hope that with our new career pathways feedback and eLearning and workshops.
and a pipeline of apprentices that we can increase internal promotions across TRG.
Team member development We know that one of the best ways to learn many things is to get hands on and experience it for yourself.
On the job learning is critical for the development of our people.
To help with this informal learning there are workbooks, training documents, and eLearning modules.
Our colleagues across the business, as well as the Learning and Development team, are always on hand to guide and support people throughout their careers.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 17 Corporate social responsibility continued Apprenticeships Our communities The introduction of the Apprentice Levy from April 2017 has We are passionate about engaging with our communities enabled us to increase our commitment to the apprenticeship and actively support our teams in their fundraising efforts and scheme.
We will be offering both level 2 and 3 apprenticeships community engagements.
Throughout 2016 we supported to individuals who meet the eligibility criteria.
These will a number of local and national charitable events, some of support the career paths of our chefs as well as individuals which are detailed below: looking to move into their first management positions within TRG.
This is a great investment in the development of skills Rays of Sunshine Childrens and ability in our team and will lead to greater engagement Charity with, and retention of, these key employees.
The Pubs division During the past two years of has built strong links with South Cheshire College and use their partnership, Frankie & them for delivery of apprenticeships and training and as a Bennys have raised over source of chef recruitment.
They also help to run the Brunning 554,000 for Rays of Sunshine and Price annual junior chef competition.
Rays of Sunshine grants wishes for children across the UK living with a serious or life-limiting Recruitment illness.
Money was raised through fundraising weekends in Across all our brands we want to attract the most talented the restaurants, donations from dishes as well as challenges individuals who are right for our business.
Our in-house taken on by the teams including sky dives and the Tough recruitment team are instrumental in achieving this and they Mudder obstacle course.
help the business to directly recruit over 250 managers a year into our restaurants for Assistant, Deputy and General Children with Cancer UK Management roles.
Chiquito raised over 20,000 for Children with Cancer UK in 2016.
This year we have invested in new systems and partnerships Last year, almost 4,000 families to further enhance our ability to provide a great candidate were given the devastating news experience.
We will be partnering with LinkedIn to actively that their child has cancer and recruit some of the hidden talent that is out there in the sadly, 500 young people lost hospitality sector, as well as creating a better online presence their battle.
The funds have gone towards supporting these through social media.
families during these difficult times.
Chiquito raised money through fundraising, donations for sombreros and a charity We have also invested in a new Applicant Tracking System to recipe booklet.
enable us to have a seamless recruitment and on boarding process, that will make it more engaging for the candidate and The School Club Zambia more efficient for us as a business to recruit our future talent.
The charity was founded in 2011 to help support community schools become financially self-sufficient, up-scale vocational education and improve employment potential in the community.
Donations largely came from a proportion of the sale of selected dishes sold at three of our Concessions brands, Bridge Bar and Eating House, Beardmore Bar and Restaurant and The Nicholas Culpepper Pub and Dining, being donated to the charity.
Since our partnership began in December 2013 we have raised 27,000.
18 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Guide Dogs Energy consumption and carbon emissions Since 2009, the Concessions team have fundraised for We continue to promote our energy saving campaign to all The Guide Dogs for the Blind Association and sponsored restaurants through the timely supply of accurate reporting.
Guide Dogs through various fundraising activities and Operational managers have the information they need to sponsored events.
During Guide Dog week in October 2016 allow them to monitor and reduce energy consumption levels they raised 5,000 for the Name a Puppy scheme.
through an online portal and centralised data resource.
The Group has built on the findings from ESOS audits and School and sports partnerships investigated several new initiatives including moving to Manchester Enterprise Academy conceptual trials which we hope to progress further in 2017.
Our Concessions team at Manchester Airport have been working with the school since 2013 to create curriculum visits The Group maintains Carbon Saver Gold Standard accredited, which, amongst other things, give students the opportunity showing seven years commitment to reducing carbon to go to our restaurants to practice life skills, broaden their emissions.
The Group also became accredited by the appreciation of culinary styles and try their hand at designing Sustainable Restaurant Association, scoring highly in the their own smoothies and pizzas.
2016 showed a 7th consecutive year of like-for-like energy consumption reduction as illustrated The Princes Trust below.
The reduction of over 2,000,000 kWh is equivalent to The Princes Trust is a youth charity that supports 13 to 30 nearly 1,000 tonnes of carbon.
This was achieved by year olds who are unemployed and those struggling at school continuing to use low energy lighting, completing our voltage and at risk of exclusion.
Our Concessions team at London optimisation roll out, benefits of heat recovery and through Luton Airport support The Princes Trust programme by managing data and exceptions to drive behavioral change.
enabling 18 to 30 year olds to work within Est Bar at London Luton Airport.
We give them an insight into working life for YTD monthly electricity consumption 2015 v 2016 KWh two weeks which, in some cases, has led to participants being employed as permanent team members at Est Bar.
10,000,000 9,500,000 Charities Aid Foundation Give As You Earn 9,000,000 In early 2014 the Group teamed up with the Charities Aid 8,500,000 Foundation to allow our team members the facility to donate to their favourite charities directly from their salary.
This 8,000,000 enables employees to make a regular donation in a tax 7,500,000 efficient way to registered charities and also local clubs, parent 7,000,000 teacher associations and even Scout or Brownie groups.
6,500,000 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Our environment 2015 2016 The Group recognises its responsibility to minimise its impact 2015 vs. 2016 % Change: -2.25% on the natural environment and continues in its commitment to Number of sites included: 349 like-for-like period reduce its energy consumption and carbon emissions, water usage and waste.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 19 -3.41% -4.98% -1.23% -1.55% -5.93% -4.41% -2.68% -2.85% -0.60% -2.77% 1.56% 2.07% Corporate social responsibility continued Greenhouse gas emissions Water We report Scope 1 and 2 emissions defined by the For water the Group benchmark restaurants and pubs by Greenhouse Gas Protocol as follows: brand daily usage and use data validation to highlight high or anomaly users.
Where usage increases or is marked as Scope 1 Direct emissions : combustion of fuel and high, the restaurant or pub is surveyed for reduction initiatives operation of facilities: and and leak fixes, ensuring that we prevent water wastage and remain commercially controlled in this area.
During 2016 we Scope 2 Indirect emissions : consumption of purchased implemented ongoing savings of over 82,000. electricity, heat or steam.
Waste Greenhouse gas emissions data: The Group has further improved its diversion from landfill to Emissions data in respect of the 2016 reporting period, on 90%: up from 87% in 2015.
A significant number of sites divert the financial control reporting basis, is as follows: 100% of their waste from landfill.
Year on year progress in this CO e tonnes 2 area is illustrated below: location-based method Emission Type 2016 2015 Current month waste diversion % Scope 1: 100 Operation of Facilities 930 287 90 Combustion 19,667 19,587 80 Total Scope 1 Emissions 20,597 19,874 70 Scope 2: 60 Purchased Energy UK 55,349 59,290 50 Total Scope 2 Emissions 55,349 59,290 40 Total Emissions 75,946 79,164 30 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Greenhouse gas emissions intensity ratio: 2014 2015 2016 Year-onYear 2016 2015 Variance Total Footprint Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO e 75,946 79,164 -3,218 2 Turnover 710.7m 685.4m 3.69% Intensity Ratio Scope 2 location based method tCO e 100,000 0.107 0.116 -7.88% 2 Scope and methodology: Our methodology has been based on the principals of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, taking account of the 2015 amendment which sets out a dual reporting methodology for the reporting of Scope 2 emissions.
We have reported on all the measured emissions sources required under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, except where stated.
The period of our report is the calendar year 2016.
This includes emissions under Scope 1 and 2, except where stated, but excludes any emissions from Scope 3.
Conversion factors for UK electricity location-based methodology, gas and other emissions are those published by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs for 2016.
20 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016
