Sustainability As part of our strategic priority of culture we pride ourselves on our commitment to thesustainability agenda and the personal development of our team.
Environmental policy The Group is committed to minimising the environmental impact of its activities and achieving continual improvement in its environmental performance by: Openly addressing the environmental risks of the work carried out, and identifying and managing the environmental risks associated with thebusiness on an ongoing basis Setting and reviewing annual environmental objectives and targets, and monitoring performance Complying with applicable environmental legislation and other requirements relevant to the Groups operations Gaining certification to the ISO14001: 2004 management standard and carrying out regular internal and external audits to ensure good performance and identify opportunitiesfor improvement Castle Medical Group, Ashby fide la Zouch Working with partners, sub-contractors Bat box and suppliers to promote good environmental management and improving resource efficiency, reducing Social and community matters performance waste and reducing the Groups Assura operates in a responsible, Reducing the environmental carbon footprint professional, ethical and reliable manner impactsofnew developments by and is trusted as a provider of services Training employees appropriately and achieving aBREEAM Excellent and facilities.
Reflecting our commitment promoting environmental awareness ratingwhere possible to the sustainability agenda, Assura has and commitment amongst all staff.
Reducing the environmental impacts aligned itself with the wider corporate This policy is reviewed and updated ofall owned and leased premises by and social responsibility interests of annually by the Board and is available adopting or promoting reasonable theNHS.
Accordingly, the Group has to the public, on our website controls for preventing pollution, aformal Environmental Management www.
System and has gained accreditation tothe ISO14001: 2004 standard.
44 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Groups role in developing new The SSE showcases Social Impact medical facilities in the community, Businesses that have taken the step to thereby bringing services closer to the evidence their impact via the publication 100% patient, helps to improve quality of life.
A Social Impact of developments in the year achieved Indeveloping a new medical centre, Business is one that uses commercial a BREEAM rating of Very Good or theGroup enters into consultation with models to organise, mobilise and manage Excellent local communities.
Many of the Groups a for-profit business that delivers social developments are part of regeneration and environmental change.
schemes that also enhance the nonmedical facilities for local communities.
The aim of the SSE is to provide 8 stakeholders with the information members of staff training to gain A current example of work in this area theyneed to identify and compare  isthe recently completed development organisations that deliver value to atAshby fide la Zouch which achieved societyand the environment.
This development has a habitat improvement Health and safety scheme and photovoltaic panels.
The Group is committed to maintain safeworking environments, and regularly Assura supports charities close to undertakes programmes to identify, itsWarrington head office which are evaluate and reduce risk in the work place heavily involved with local communities.
Risk reviews, supported by executive management reporting, are Assura is a founder member of theSocial presented to the Board on a regular basis.
Victoria Park Health Centre, Leicester Landscaped sustainable drainage wetland area www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 45
