Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Safety, Health and Environment Committee report Statement from the Chairman of the Safety, Health and Environment Committee Safety, health and the environment SHE remains a key principle of the Group which is embedded within the day-to-day operations of the business.
In 2014, the Group Board established this Committee primarily to oversee and provide stewardship of the Groups SHEoperational performance.
The key aspects of this Committees role are to: oversee the Groups compliance with the SHE management system: identify and monitor SHE risks or exposures for the business and determine how best tomitigate against them: establish and maintain policies in respect of all areas relating to safety, health and the environment: assess the outcome of annual SHE internal and external audits and agree necessary actions with the Group SHE Director: receive assessments from the Group SHE Director on specific incidents to gain an understanding of what caused it, details of the internal and external if any investigations that are being have been undertaken and details of what steps have been taken or controls put in place to mitigate against the incident recurring: and agree and recommend to the Remuneration Committee targets for any SHE performance measure which is to be applied to the annual bonus scheme and monitor performance against such measures.
The Committee continues to work closely with the SHE Operating Committee.
To further enhance this relationship, the SHE Committee now holds at least one joint meeting with the SHE Health and safety is of paramount Operating Committee.
This allows this Committee to gain a more in-depth understanding of the issues from an operational perspective and for the Committee to discuss such issues directly importance to the Group.
We strive to with those responsible for day-to-day management.
continually improve our processes and These terms of reference are available on are pleased to announce that this was www.
co. uk investors corporate-governance governance-policies recognised by the British Safety Council who have again granted our health and Key achievements in FY16 safety management 5 star status.
We continue to strive to ensure that our people, whether employees, sub-contractors or members of the public, remain safe throughout the whole construction and sales process of our developments and in the wider business.
Consequently, we continually monitor, review and amend as necessary our SHE policies, Richard Akers processes and procedures to ensure that they remain up to date and relevant to the business.
Safety, Health and Environment All employees are encouraged to familiarise themselves with these policies, processes and Committee Chairman procedures during their induction and are invited to attend various health and safety courses throughout their time with the Group.
74 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information In addition, we have undertaken various campaigns during the year including a Five Steps to Membership and attendance at SHE Committee meetings Safety initiative which encourage positive behaviours and a culture of assessing risks prior to The Directors who are members of the SHE Committee and their attendance at the one undertaking work activities.
This initiative was commended by the NHBC as the leading health scheduled meeting during the year are shown in Table 7.
The Groups SHE Director is also and safety initiative in the industry.
amember and the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Such initiatives have helped us to once again achieve 5-star status with the British Safety Council Only members of the SHE Committee have the right to attend meetings, however other following their recent health and safety audit.
The audit evaluates leadership at all levels of individuals may be invited to attend all or part of any meeting where it is deemed appropriate.
the business and dedication to continuous improvement, in addition to other factors such as occupational health, employee well-being, safety culture and the appropriate dedication of Table 7 sufficient resources to health and safety.
This achievement is truly important for our business Member Role Number of meetings attended and independently illustrates that our health and safety approach, policies and procedures are ofthe highest quality.
Richard Akers Chairman 1 1 Steven Boyes Member 1 1 In addition to preparing and undertaking this audit we have been closely monitoring our overall injury incidence rates and the underlying causes of any recurring accidents.
1 The Groups SHE Director also attended 1 1 meetings during the year.
We have continued to monitor our SHE performance targets and our key performance indicators, which are available in the Strategic Report and our Sustainability Report.
Note: 1 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
Despite our best efforts, it is with deep regret that I have to inform you that two employees of 1 Number of meetings whilst a Director.
our sub-contractors tragically lost their lives on site during the year.
I can assure you that both The SHE Operations Committee reports directly to the SHE Committee with the Group SHE incidents have been thoroughly investigated by our internal health and safety team and we are Director presenting direct reports to these Committees and to the Board.
The Group SHE fully co-operating with the Health and Safety Executive during their ongoing investigations into Operations Committee continues to operate and is responsible for implementing and oversight each of the incidents.
At this stage there are no defined management failures which could be ofthe overall SHE improvement strategy for the Group.
directly attributed to the cause of either of the incidents and no enforcement or improvement notices have been issued by the Health and Safety Executive.
Our thoughts are with the families of each of the individuals concerned during this distressing time.
Areas of focus for FY17 During FY17, we will: continue to review and monitor our SHE systems and processes throughout the business toensure that they remain fit for purpose: ensure that our SHE performance targets and objectives remain challenging and do not encourage inappropriate behaviours or unnecessary risk taking: continue to try and identify better and safer ways to work: and continue to monitor incident rates and perform causal analysis on incidents to ensure appropriate action is taken to reduce these through targeted campaigns.
Without our people, we do not have a business and therefore their safety and well-being will, asalways, remain a top priority for this Committee and the Group Board.
Richard Akers Chairman of the SHE Committee 6 September 2016 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75
