Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Being a trusted partner Georgina McLean The challenge and our response Our principle Group Procurement Manager who Housebuilding is a long term business and has taken the lead on the partnership relationship building with the the development of sustained business Supply Chain Sustainability School, We build meaningful, long term partnerships with landowners, suppliers and supporting a diverse, capable supply relationships that make us sub-contractors, is critical to our success.
chain who can help us achieve our sustainability goals.
the developer of choice for our We continue to work with private landowners, operators and agents to identify and bring partners.
We are innovating with forward land for development.
Divisional land our supply chain to drive efficiency teams continue to work hard to try and and meet our customers needs.
ensure we are regarded as the housebuilder of choice by the local landowners and agency community.
Key highlights Our suppliers and sub-contractors are Continue to work with a variety of partners critical to the delivery of our strategic to bring forward land for development objectives and we invest in our relationships with them.
We hold a national supply chain Continue to invest in the relationship with conference and regular review meetings our suppliers and sub-contractors with our suppliers and seek to develop long term business relationships.
We also work with our suppliers to help them to introduce the new technologies that we need to meet increasingly challenging building standards.
We also work with our sub-contractors to help them to improve their environmental andsafety performance.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our principles continued Building strong community relationships We work closely with local planning We continue to support and promote a wide The challenge and our response Our principle authorities to negotiate and deliver or fund range of charitable giving and community Housebuilding has a direct impact upon local social infrastructure such as highways and volunteering initiatives with each division communities.
It is therefore important that public transport improvements, new schools focusing on the charitable activities that best We engage fully with local they are engaged in the creation process and and school places, sports facilities and reflect the needs of their local community communities and customers that our development creates a positive legacy.
and the issues that impact upon their when creating new developments.
As a Group we contribute social and economic employees.
We have launched a Charity of Engagement with local communities to seek benefits to the communities in which we are the Year Scheme, where we match every We seek to ensure that our work to address any impact that our developments working, which are far-reaching and longpound raised for each divisions charity of the creates a positive legacy that may have on the environment is also lasting.
By building more homes we are year up to a set maximum.
By holding public consultations, helps local communities to thrive.
generating substantial amounts of economic have raised 603,776 for charity this year, we invite stakeholders to talk to our specialist activity and we estimate that during the including 46,402 donated by Barratt through planners and architects about their concerns year we supported over 55,000 jobs either the Charity of the Year Scheme.
In addition we Key highlights and aspirations for our developments.
The homes we have launched a volunteering policy whereby We believe that a genuinely collaborative build for new communities are high quality: every employee can take one days paid leave Estimated that our activities support approach will deliver more land and housing for example, the average size of new private to volunteer for a charity of their choice.
over 55,000 jobs directly, indirectly and in this regard 62% 2015: 54% of our active homes sold in the year by Barratt was 1,114 sq or induced in the economy developments have held a public consultation.
ft, 12% larger than the average UK home.
Work closely with local authorities 1 Based on 2012 13 English Housing Survey.
Actively engage with local communities St James C of E Primary School pupils were given a tour of Ribble Meadow, Clitheroe by our mascot Barry Barratt.
Children from Allington Primary School visit The Orchards development to find out just what it takes to design and plan a community of new homes.
38 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
