Strategic Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Report Big Yellow recognises that a high level of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, linked to clear commercial objectives, will create a more sustainable business and increase shareholder and customer value.
1.0 INTRODUCTION Big Yellow recognises that a high level of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, linked to clear commercial objectives, will create a more sustainable business and increase shareholder and customer value.
Our CSR policy covers all of our operations, as a self storage provider, a real estate developer, an employer and a participant in our local communities.
Big Yellow seeks to meet the demand for self storage from businesses and private individuals providing the storage space for their commercial and or domestic needs, whilst aiding local employment creation and contributing to local community regeneration.
2.0 CSR EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Big Yellow is pleased to deliver another year of steady CSR progress across the Group.
Our focus over the last 12 months has delivered the following benefits: Our successful entry into the Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to Work For, after a survey response rate of 81% from our team compared to an average of 63% from other companies.
We achieved a Two Star Status in the Best Companies Accreditation, with only 21% of the entrants bettering our status.
Supporting 14 different local charities elected by our stores and by our head office teams: our people undertook a variety of activities for these and a few other charities and raised over 45,000 of funds during the year.
At the same time Big Yellow and Armadillo Self Storage donated the equivalent of over 753,000 of free storage in the same period.
Big Yellows Health & Safety record on our construction sites and at our stores maintained its exemplary high standards.
Measured by both the number of recorded Minor Injuries and by RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulation our high standards of health and safety have continued to be delivered to our customers, staff, contractors and other visitors.
Furthermore, we have continued to manage our construction sites under the controlling factors of the CCS Considerate Constructors Scheme.
Our continued investment in LED lighting and in fuel efficient gas heating systems at our flexi-offices has delivered reduced carbon emissions in both absolute and like-for-like measures.
Our total annual Carbon emissions are now 35.2% lower than our peak year of 2011.
Furthermore if we look at these emissions in relation to our occupancy our carbon per square metre occupied is down 58.0% from our 2011 peak.
We have continued to open new stores with sustainable energy generation investments.
In the last 12 months our new solar investment at Enfield a new store has added to our supply chain, which has now grown by 335% since 2011.
Our 17 stores with solar energy systems now generate 15.4% of the total electricity they need from sustainable sources.
We continue to benchmark our CSR performance against credible certifications where we consider them to be relevant.
42% of our stores hold EPCs Energy Performance Certificates, the majority of which are rated A or B.
We have assessed a selection of stores to comply with the UK Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS and are considering the outcome of these surveys for future sustainable initiatives.
We continue to participate in sustainable benchmarking initiatives such as the FTSE4Good, EPRA, Carbon Disclosure Project CDP and the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB.
Finally, we continue to plan for the future and to continue to deliver sustainable benefits to the Group.
We aim to reduce our Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG from the 2008 peak by 40.4% by 2020.
We will achieve this by continuing our investment in LED lighting, solar PV systems on our store roofs and other sustainable initiatives identified from our ESOS surveys.
