66 STRATEGIC REPORT Resource efficiency Communities 6% 6% 5% 350,000 reduction in carbon reduction in energy increase in our awarded to date to projects in our like-for-like use in our total recycling rate from from our Community Fund portfolio managed portfolio 68% to 73% Sustainability Sustainability continues to form an important part of our business model and we have made strong progress, in what has been another busy and successful year.
The progress made in 2016 is reflected in our community fund, which continues to develop and support numerous projects and initiatives across our Fitzrovia and Tech Belt portfolios.
During 2016, the fund supported 20 organisations seven in Fitzrovia and 13 in the Tech Belt with over 110,000 invested across a diverse range of grass-roots community projects.
Following feedback from our stakeholders, we introduced our first supply chain standard, which is designed to clearly set out our expectations of suppliers across a series of sustainability and governance issues.
These issues range from employment labour standards to payment practices and health and safety.
The standard was distributed to all the major suppliers in our property management and development supply chains and they were John Davies formally required to acknowledge and adhere to it.
Head of Sustainability Moreover, it has been included as a standard feature in our contractual agreements with suppliers.
Going Paul Williams forward we will be monitoring compliance against Executive Director for Sustainability the standard to ensure it is being implemented robustly.
A copy of the standard can be found at www.
2016 also saw a significant step forward in international climate change legislation, with 195 countries, including the UK, signing the legally binding Paris Agreement on climate change.
The agreement aims to keep global temperature 0 C and cut carbon emissions increases well below 2 to virtually zero by 2050.
In signing this agreement, the UK Government sent a clear signal not only of its commitment to carbon reduction, but also to businesses that they must reduce their carbon footprints and ensure they are resilient to the effects of climate change.
STRATEGIC REPORT 67 Awards and Recognition GRESB Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark 2016 5 star rating Green Star status retained for the fifth year in succession CDP 2016 Management B rating EPRA Sustainability Reporting Awards 2016 Gold Award for our 2015 Annual Sustainability Report Corporate Knights 2017 Global 2017 100 most sustainable companies 12th in the Global 100 list and top ranking UK company To support this commitment and ensure we minimise Our performance our risk exposure to the effects of climate change, We achieved 84% of our 2016 targets compared we have developed a comprehensive management with 81% in 2015, a modest increase, with no strategy underpinned by a clear and challenging targets missed.
Further details of this strategy and target can be found in our Annual Achieved 84% Sustainability Report at www.
Yet again, our work has been recognised externally with the receipt, for a fifth consecutive year, of a five star rating Green Star in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB.
We also received a new and improved rating in the CDP index, achieving a Management B rating.
In addition, and for the fourth successive year, our Annual Sustainability Report received a Gold Award in the EPRA Reporting Awards.
Finally, we were ranked 12th in Corporate We achieved 80% of our internal KPIs.
Knights 2017 Global 100 companies, and were the highest placed UK based company the list Achieved 80% announced at the World Economic Forum meeting Ongoing 20% in Davos each year rates the worlds best companies on their sustainability performance as well as their management of resources, finances and employees.
In 2015, we introduced more demanding and longer-term targets designed to challenge us, whilst ensuring we deliver against our strategic sustainability objectives.
This continued into 2016, when we set more targets in this way to help us improve our performance.
Moreover, we updated and strengthened our internal key performance indicators Combined we achieved 82% of our performance to ensure we maintain our high standards.
measures a clear indication of the commitment Similar to last year, we have set out a breakdown and hard work of our teams.
of our performance both in terms of our external facing targets and internal key performance indicators Achieved 82% to give a complete picture of our performance.
Ongoing 18% We hope the summary presented here gives you a sense of our progress and achievements during 2016.
However, for a more comprehensive review of our sustainability work and performance, please refer to our Annual Sustainability Report at www.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016
