68 STRATEGIC REPORT 116 65,000 234 89% 59% 41% employees training spend volunteering hours Retention rate Overall male female ratio Our people Attracting, supporting, developing and retaining talented employees is fundamental to the Group achieving its strategic objectives.
Our culture Derwent Londons strong and healthy culture both safeguards and generates long-term value when underpinned by effective governance.
Our culture is maintained and communicated through a variety of activities, including our recruitment and induction processes, training initiatives, leadership development, performance management and succession planning.
Derwent Londons culture is described by its employees as professional, progressive and passionate.
These, together with integrity, a consultative leadership style and commerciality, are key to the Groups performance, define what we stand for and how we behave with our stakeholders.
It is important to us that every employee feels valued and respected and able to develop and thrive in our challenging, fast-paced environment.
We believe that adopting strong ethical values Katy Levine right and communicating them reinforces standards of Head of Human Resources behaviour amongst employees and stakeholders, allows us to continue to foster a positive culture and Carole Freeman left builds a sense of trust.
We consider it our duty to Payroll Human Resources Manager have procedures in place to identify and remedy any malpractice, either within the Group or elsewhere, that affects us.
We also expect all employees to maintain high standards of behaviour, as set out in our Employee Handbook and policies.
We encourage our staff to report any wrongdoing that falls short of those standards.
Our Whistleblowing Policy enables them to do this and ensures their concerns are investigated and appropriate action is taken.
To date, no calls internally or externally have been made to the helpline reporting any unethical behaviour.
As we continue to grow, we adapt to changing conditions and work hard on retaining our culture and open-door policy.
STRATEGIC REPORT 69 Our structure Length of service number Our business is structured to deliver our strategic objectives with departments in the disciplines of Asset management, Development, Finance, Leasing Under 29 3 years and Acquisitions investment recycling, with support 3-5 provided by a number of other specialist functions.
16 years Cross-functional teams that draw on expertise from 5-10 40 years across the business work on specific projects see 1 0-15 13 The White Chapel Building case study on page 71, years which we believe increases creativity, flexibility, 1 5-20 9 years innovation and collaboration.
20 9 years Our Executive Committee usually meets monthly and comprises the six executive Directors and five Equal opportunities and diversity senior managers.
With all the main departments We are an inclusive employer, which means we represented, the Committee ensures accountability provide a supportive environment for all our across the business and that changes in the employees.
We believe this encourages creativity Groups strategic focus are communicated and through diversity of thought.
The Group has a strong implemented.
Decisions can be taken on all but the commitment to ensuring equality and diversity in all most important issues, which are reserved for the its forms and we support the Core Conventions of Board.
The Committee can meet on an ad hoc basis the International Labour Organisation.
We give full and this, together with the close proximity within and fair consideration to all employment applicants which we work and the way we manage our projects, and our policies, practices and procedures for as described above, enables us to handle complex recruitment, training, reward and career progression transactions and make quick decisions, with the are based purely on merit.
overall aim of creating value and driving income growth across our portfolio.
Consequently we have had no discrimination claims to date and have a relatively balanced workforce of We look to fill any management positions by internal 59% male and 41% female, while within our senior promotions wherever possible.
This strengthens our management team 37% are female.
In addition, 78% leadership pipeline and helps us retain our top talent.
of our employees classify themselves as white and The fact that 27% of employees have more than ten 22% as non-white.
years service is testament to our high staff retention and ensures that we have excellent knowledge and Should an employee develop a long-term health continuity.
This is balanced by the growth in the concern or disability, we work closely with our business which has seen 39% of our employees Company doctor to understand the condition and, recruited in the past five years, bringing with them wherever possible, the adjustments that need to be new ideas, competencies and experience.
made to ensure a smooth return.
In 2017 we will be reviewing how we can better work We are also committed to diversity at Board level.
together and develop our people and culture to Last year we appointed two new non-executive ensure that as a business we are Fit for the Future Directors, Cilla Snowball and Claudia Arney, who and continue successfully to deliver our strategy.
bring a wealth of experience to the Board and have been involved in mentoring other women throughout Organisation number the Company.
During 2016, we updated our website to highlight our approach to equal opportunities and diversity.
Acquisitions Employee engagement investment recycling Our retention rate of 89% 2015: 90% and the 6 results of our first employee survey conducted in 2015, as described in last years report, reveal a Executive highly committed, loyal and engaged workforce.
Committee Asset The improvement most recommended through the Development management survey related to the office facilities and the Board 5 13 believe this will be delivered through the current 29 office refurbishment due to complete in H1 2017.
Board of The new offices will further enhance collaboration Directors between departments and provide a better working 13 environment that promotes productivity and well-being.
Finance Leasing A steering group was set up in 2016 to address the lower scoring areas in the employee survey.
20 8 Recommendations were subsequently presented to the Executive Committee covering areas such as agile Other working, how to keep roles challenging and better communication of short and medium term strategy 22 to the staff.
The intention is to implement these steps in 2017 and the employee survey will be repeated towards the end of this year to measure the impact of our initiatives and the new office environment.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 70 STRATEGIC REPORT Our people continued Gender diversity number 68 All employees 48 11 Board 2 12 Senior management 7 Male Female Employees by age Number 20-29 9 30-39 38 40-49 31 50-59 26 60 12 Ethnic origin split Training and development We recognise the importance of career development and progression for our employees and how these Number can support our succession plans which are White British 76 fundamental to the future growth and stability of White other 14 the business.
We hold six-monthly reviews, provide Asian 13 360-degree feedback and encourage regular Black 9 discussions with line managers to highlight any Other 4 training requirements, future objectives, career aspirations or challenges.
We invested 65,000 in staff training, professional qualifications and one-to-one coaching in 2016.
This included a training session entitled Shaping Futures, which demonstrated to managers how they could help their team take ownership of their own career development within the Groups organisational structure.
All employees attended a Give Me Strength training session, aimed at helping them identify their strengths and how to use these skills effectively within their roles.
In addition, experienced executive coaches, who understand our culture, have offered support and guidance specifically aimed at developing softer skills.
In addition, there were a number of internal initiatives aimed at sharing knowledge across the business.
For example, there were induction programmes for our 13 new joiners, two Building Manager and front-of-house conferences, IT sessions, tax updates and monthly internal presentations covering topics such as progress on development projects and the leasing and marketing strategies for our buildings.
STRATEGIC REPORT 71 Community and volunteering During the year we continued to support charitable organisations and our local communities, both financially and through the provision of our peoples time and expertise.
Examples include a mentoring programme and our internal volunteering programme, through which our employees spent a total of 234 hours volunteering across a range of projects.
In partnership with the London Borough of Islington, 18 employees took part in a careers workshop at a local school and we recruited our third apprentice, Nathan Joseph, as a trainee building manager.
Please refer to our 2016 Annual Sustainability Report to read our interview with Nathan and for more information on our community initiatives.
Reward and recognition To achieve our strategic objectives we need to attract, nurture, develop and retain talented employees.
Our approach is to reward people based on individual performance and their contribution to the success of the Group.
Annual salary increases and bonuses are linked to an overall performance rating which is allocated through our appraisal process.
In order to continue to be seen as an employer of choice and maintain a high level of employee retention, we aim to provide market competitive remuneration and a comprehensive benefits package.
The White Chapel Building project team The acquisition and subsequent refurbishment and letting of The White Chapel Building was accomplished by a project team that drew on expertise from across the business.
In order to appraise the building pre-purchase, the project team originally consisted of representatives from Investment, Leasing, Development, and Valuation to ensure accurate assumptions were made in respect of income, capital expenditure, yield and value.
This, alongside input on funding and tax from our Finance team, enabled us to assess whether the required returns could be achieved.
Once purchased, staff from the Development, Leasing and Marketing teams worked together to deliver the right product for the market.
With the letting campaign underway, the Asset management team including Property and Facilities management ensured that all contractual obligations agreed with new tenants were delivered.
With the building 75% pre-let at practical completion, the project team ensured a smooth handover to the five tenants and coordinated their fit-outs.
As happens on all schemes, once the tenants were in situ there was a comprehensive handover from Development and Leasing to the Asset managers.
The White Chapel Building project team will not be disbanded once the building is let: it will deliver maintenance and management of the asset, value enhancement through proactive asset management, re-letting of future voids and, potentially, a future disposal.
This fully joined-up approach means that each asset in the portfolio is always working, with opportunities being closely monitored and value added throughout its life-cycle.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 72 Governance 73 THE WHITE CHAPEL BUILDING E1 This substantial eight-storey office building was acquired in December 2015 and sits on a one acre site on the eastern edge of the Tech Belt.
Phase 1 has undergone a light-touch refurbishment and comprises 185,000 sq ft of offices which are 78% let.
We have created a new entrance and improved the atrium to provide a vibrant communal space featuring workstations, lounge area and a new caf.
Planning has been granted on Phase 2 which will provide an additional 85,000 sq ft on the lower ground floors.
2 Board of Directors 74 Senior management 76 Corporate governance 77 Report of the Remuneration Committee 85 Letter from the Chairman of the Nominations Committee 104 Report of the Nominations Committee 104 Letter from the Chairman of the Risk Committee 105 Report of the Risk Committee 105 Letter from the Chairman of the Audit Committee 106 Report of the Audit Committee 107 Directors report 109 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016
