56 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Managing our key sustainability risks Our approach to sustainability is an integral part of our business Improving resource management at our assets strategy, designed to address our In order to reduce energy consumption both in landlords material risks and enhance the long-term value of our business areas and the tenants demise, we need to work closely through responsible acquisition, withour tenants.
We do this by: development and management ofour buildings to meet the engaging with our tenants on resource consumption needs of our key stakeholders.
issues at tenant meetings and through Environmental Janine Cole Working Groups: Head of Sustainability providing energy and water consumption information on each building through our dedicated tenant website: and 2015 16 Strategic priority providing reports to tenants on progress made in implementing To deliver our development programme and drive energy efficiencies recommended by our energy audits.
rental growth through responsible development and management of our buildings This year, energy consumption across our buildings has fallen 13% as a result of a combination of activities including Operational measures a rebalancing and seasonal commissioning exercise at 240 Change in total Number of F and 13 % 23 Blackfriars Road, SE1, improved metering at 200 Grays Inn energy consumption G rated Energy Road, WC1, increased monitoring of consumption data across our managed Performance buildings Certicates across the portfolio and the sale of 95 Wigmore Street, W1.
BREEAM Excellent GRESB rating 12 14 New Green We also take the opportunity to specically target improving ratings achieved Fetter Lane Star resource management at our properties as leases expire.
BREEAM Very Walmar Good ratings It is essential that we do all we can to improve the efficiency House achieved of our existing properties.
We operate a watch list of E, F and G rated buildings not only due to Minimum Energy Our approach efficiency Standards coming into effect in April 2018 which We aim to meet current and future tenant needs by prohibit the letting of spaces with EPC ratings of F and G future-proong our buildings, whilst having regard to the but also to reduce energy costs for our tenants.
Whilst some wider environment in which our buildings are located.
of our 23 F and G rated demises are exempt due to the Through responsible development and management buildings being listed, actions required to improve the ofour buildings we can unlock the potential of our remainder have been identied.
For acquisitions, where properties and enhance the long-term value of our EPC ratings are below an E rating, consideration is given business.
Our sustainability strategy is reviewed annually to the level of further investment required to improve the by the Environmental Policy Committee and approved EPC prior to purchase.
Costs related to introducing energy bythe Board.
A gap analysis is undertaken to ensure that: efficiencies are included in all refurbishment plans and current regulatory requirements are met and where prior to commencement of a refurbishment, the EPC for a appropriate exceeded: demise will be reviewed to ensure that the works target an improvement in EPC rating by at least one grade.
we evolve to keep pace and prepare for changes in legislation: our sustainability strategy reects the expectations Improving our buildings EPC ratings ofour stakeholders: our sustainability strategy reects industry best During the year ended 31 March 2016, we improved, practice:and or are in the process of undertaking works to improve, EPCratings at our buildings as follows: our sustainability strategy is compatible with our Original New overallbusiness strategy.
Property Rating Rating During the year ending March 2017, we will be focusing Carrington House, W1 third oor East G C 1 31 32 Alfred Place, W1 ground to sixth oor F C on our Towards the 2020s sustainability strategy and 1 33 34 Alfred Place, W1 ground to sixth oor F C updating our Environmental Policy Committee terms Kingsland House, W1 second to fourth oor F C of reference to reect its broader sustainability remit, 1 Elm House, WC1 ground to tenth oor E C including responsible supply chain management, 13 14 Great Castle Street, W1 E B humanrights, place making and wellbeing.
1 54 56 Jermyn Street, SW1 ground to eighthoor E D Foxglove House, the Piccadilly Buildings, W1 D C 200 Grays Inn Road, WC1 fifth oor D C 1 200 Grays Inn Road, WC1 seventh oor D C Pollen House, W1 second to fourth oors D C 1.
Target EPC for works in progress as at 31 March 2016.
