48 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Our culture and people Our integrated team Our culture and people lie at the heart of our ability to achieve GPE combines the very best of a disciplined approach to our strategic priorities, unlocking potential across our portfolio.
Our work, high standards in everything we do, and also high culture is fundamental to our ability expectations of our people, but with a collegiate approach to attract, develop, motivate and to projects, friendly environment and strong camaraderie.
As a small organisation in people terms just under Toby Courtauld Chief Executive 100, every single persons contribution counts.
When we hire, we look for individuals who are comfortable taking responsibility and working constructively and exibly with Operational measures colleagues.
We then invest time in giving new starters an extensive induction to the organisation so they can feel at Employee Employees 88% 66% retention 2015: 87% participating 2015: 77% home right away and able to give their best.
inShare IncentivePlan Our talented team brings together specialist skills which Days training Lateral moves 3.1 8 are used to manage our portfolio rigorously, on an assetprovided per 2015: 3.6 andpromotions 2015: 3 by-asset basis, and ensure the achievement of our strategic 1 employee priorities.
Each of our department heads, collectively our 1.
On average Senior Management Team, interact daily with the Executive Directors and report regularly to the Companys Executive Our approach Committee, the principal decision making body for management and operational matters.
Our culture is entrepreneurial and pragmatic, with a high level of involvement from senior and executive In 2015, we promoted Marc Wilder and Andrew White to our management and an emphasis on cross-disciplinary Executive Committee as Leasing Director and Development teamwork.
We recognise the benets of such a positive Director respectively.
Robin Matthews, formerly at culture and work hard to maintain it through: Mooreld Group, will join us in the summer of 2016 to replace Ben Chambers as Investment Director.
Steven Mew regular and effective communication with an open will also be joining GPE and the Executive Committee doorpolicy: as Portfolio Director in the autumn of 2016 from listed regular meetings held weekly, monthly and quarterly property company McKay Securities plc.
Together, these across the various teams on different aspects of appointments deliver additional management capacity the business: and excellent bench strength enabling us to successfully encouraging our people to be innovative, whilst still manage the increased scale and complexity of our business maintaining a disciplined approach providing clear and take full advantage of the many further opportunities policies and procedures and instilling a strong sense that we have within our portfolio.
ofresponsibility for active risk management: a collegiate style, with recognition of a projects Taking account of the growth in the business in recent successbeing based upon the contribution and years, during 2015 we secured additional ofce space at smoothinteraction of every member of the team: 33Cavendish Square, where we have been based since 2005. providing well-constructed and fair reward systems The t-out which we will complete in 2016 will enable our designed to incentivise superior individual and people, and the external teams we work with, to benefit from team performance and align employees and a high quality working environment and one that will continue : to foster the collaborative culture which is so key to GPE.
providing an attractive pipeline of high quality projects Number of employees 2016 and assets to manage: Executive Directors 3 recruiting high quality individuals with a constructive Asset Management mindset and valuable experience: Investment Management 29 Development Management a formal and extensive induction process for new joiners: Financial Management ensuring continual improvement of the skills and 33 competency of our employees at all levels and across 95 employees all disciplines through appropriate training courses anddevelopment: and fostering a friendly environment which engenders astrong camaraderie.
23 7 Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 49 putting appropriate training resources in place to enhance The Leadership Programme has skills development for now and the future.
enabled me to better empower, encourage and motivate my team, further enhancing GPEs positive Rewarding performance culture.
The Board is responsible for setting our strategic priorities Mike Gould and monitoring performance against them see pages 10 Regional Building Manager and 11.
Our senior managers are accountable for working with their team members to develop appropriate annual objectives based on the nature of their role and for ensuring that everyone understands how they contribute tooverall Unlocking our people potential business objectives.
During the year ended 31 March 2016, 104,820 was invested All employees have mid-year and annual performance inemployee and Non-Executive Director training, providing appraisals.
In addition, all employees participate in the 2,039 hours of training averaging 3.1 days per employee.
Companys annual employee bonus plan, with a portion Total number of training hours by type of their reward driven by personal performance against objectives and the balance triggered by GPEs corporate 900 performance against key financial targets.
800 802 For the year ended 31 March 2016, we changed the 700 employee bonus plan corporate measures to be the same 600 as those of the Executive Directors to ensure complete 500 alignment with the Executive Team in driving relative 400 381 asset capital values and net asset growth for shareholders.
300 247 We also provided training for managers to help them 200 194 191 147 with their role of giving constructive, developmental 100 77 feedback to team members to enhance individual and 0 2016 team performance and changed our appraisal process to Corporate responsibility and governance incl HR Finance make it simpler and easier for people to focus on what was Leadership development Health and safety Environmental IT important in relation to their performance during the year.
Estates management As part of the year-end remuneration process, the Executive We have always encouraged our people to develop Committee and the Senior Management Team review in their careers, providing professional development salary benchmarking against market competitors, individual experience opportunities as well as funding and support for performance against personal objectives, proposed qualications.
In the year to 31 March 2016, we considered discretionary bonuses and planned Long-Term Incentive how we could further enhance individual personal Plan awards.
The outcome of this process is then provided to development.
As a result, we are creating a structured HR the Remuneration Committee which reviews remuneration programme of activities that will enable us to grow the talent levels proposed for all employees and decides upon in our organisation to meet business needs as well as opening recommendations made for senior manager and Executive up further options for internal succession.
Working with all Director salary levels, bonus awards for achievement of personal our managers, we started by dening the particular type of objectives and proposed Long-Term Incentive Plan awards.
leadership skills GPE needs moving forward.
The base salary increase for employees for the year ending In January 2016, we embarked on an in-depth, tailored 31 March 2017 is 2%.
Increases of more than 2% were given Leadership Development programme for all of our 24 to some employees due to market realignment and or line managers including our Executive Committee.
increases in responsibility and contribution, such that the The programme consists of behavioural proling, workshops average increase in base salary for the year ending 31 March and coaching and will be rolled out over a nine month period.
Going forward, all new recruits to the organisation who have line management responsibilities will be given training in All employees have the opportunity to participate in the GPEs Unlocking People Potential leadership programme.
Companys two for one Share Incentive Plan SIP which encourages people to become investors in GPE and to share In 2016, we will further extend development support to all in the Companys financial success.
Our plans include: making behavioural proling available to all our people as a tool to help them with their personal development and to optimise working relationships with colleagues both 66% internally and externally: redeveloping our mid-year appraisals to become more of employees participate personal and career development focused: and in the SIP scheme Strategic Report Annual review 50 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Our culture and people Supporting diversity and inclusion Talented individuals and a great team environment make for GPEs success.
Our culture is grounded in mutual respect and nonThis knowledge drives our careful discrimination irrespective of age, disability, gender, race, selection of new recruits, our strong religion, sexual orientation or educational background.
and growing investment in people Our aim is to foster a culture of respect and fairness where development and our focus on working to develop the GPE culture.
individual success depends solely on ability, behaviour, work performance, demonstrated potential and perhaps the Sally Learoyd most key of all, the ability to work as part of a team.
Head of Human Resources Whilst our policy remains that selection should be based on the best person for the role, we recognise the benets of Promoting engagement gender diversity.
From March 2015, we amended our policy We believe that in order to deliver our strategy it is so that when recruiting, where possible, at least 30% of important that every one of our team is fully engaged.
potential candidates identied should be women.
As our business grows, it is key that we retain what is unique and best about GPE whilst at the same time evolving so we Employee prole age number of people can continue to deliver outstanding results in our larger, 1930 more complex organisational environment.
In the summer 15 16 3140 of 2015, we asked those employees who interact regularly 4150 50 with our Executive Committee about the Groups areas of strength and those where improvements could be made.
Results focus, management approachability, involvement 95 30 employees in decision-making and communication all scored highly with areas for improvement identied as being people development, delegation and creating more opportunities 34 for employees to be involved and recognised at a broader level.
We have taken action on all these areas with the help of our Senior Management Team, resulting in our learning and development plans outlined above, the revisiting of Employee prole gender diversity number of people our delegated authority levels and introducing recognition awards for individuals who have gone the extra mile.
In the 60 autumn of 2015, we also had a late summer barbecue 53 50 tothank all our teams for their hard work and contribution tooutstanding results in the first half of the year.
40 42 30 In addition, whilst we continue to ask all new joiners for their feedback, this year we have asked all employees to 20 20 share their views on both changes made to the appraisal 11 10 9 3 process during the year and proposed plans for the t-out 7 1 of our space at head ofce to help us improve the way we 0 Gender Board Senior Middle diversity management management go about developing and implementing these initiatives.
Women In order to build on our wider engagement, in 2016 we Men will also be undertaking our first externally co-ordinated engagement survey which will be designed by our employees through a number of workshops.
Going the extra mile award In September 2015, we presented James Pellatt Head of Projects with our inaugural going the extra mile award for his considerable efforts in organising the GPE bike ride involving 50 of our contractors, consultants, lawyers and suppliers to raise money for the Willow Foundation.
Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 51 The Finance Team Away Day Martin Leighton and Jonathan Nichollsat the Finance Team AwayDayin January 2016.
In January 2016, we held a Finance Team Away Day processes within a development using 12 14 New Fetter involving 30 members of the Finance, IT, Company Lane, EC4, Rathbone Square, W1 and Oxford House, W1 Secretarial and Human Resources teams spending some as examples.
They also highlighted the importance time together out of the ofce.
The day started with Nick of the involvement of the Finance Team throughout Sanderson, our Finance Director, emphasising how the the development process including production of various different teams within the wider Finance Team the development appraisals, consideration of the tax were fundamental in adding value to the Group across a implications and the timely payment of contractors.
He highlighted that key to this success Lastly, there was a question and answer session led was the way in which individuals looked to continually by Martin Leighton, our Head of Corporate Finance, improve both communication and processes and wherever where individuals had also been given the opportunity possible to empower others.
This was followed by the to submit questions anonymously in advance of the day group making their own lunch, splitting into two teams for with answers provided by Nick Sanderson.
Moving from a cooking lesson which resulted in some team members Oxford House, the team split into smaller groups for a demonstrating a previously unknown talent!
tour of the Rathbone Square residential marketing suite and development site, with various members of the In the afternoon, the group moved to the marketing suite Project Team explaining some of the key features that had at Oxford House, W1 where Tim Leckie, a real estate helped in securing the pre-let to Facebook.
Heading into equity analyst from JP Morgan Cazenove, interviewed by the evening, the day was completed with a Ping-Pong Stephen Burrows, our Head of Financial Reporting and tournament accompanied by drinks and snacks at a venue Investor Relations, provided a candid insight into a day in in Holborn where Hayden Wheeler, GPEs Joint Venture the life of an analyst, what he thought of GPE and what he Financial Controller, was the clear winner!
particularly valued from GPEs management presentations.
Jonathan Nicholls, our Chairman of the Audit Committee, then gave an informal presentation on his previous I found the whole day extremely experience as a Finance Director, his role as a GPE Noninteresting and enjoyed being with Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, and nally the confidence gained by the GPEBoard my wider colleagues in a different in regularly meeting with individuals below theBoard.
Andrew White, Development Director, and Piers Kirsty Davie Blewitt, Senior Development Manager, rounded upthe Head of Investment Analysis and Management Information presentations with an overview of the decision-making Strategic Report Annual review
