OUR PEOPLE Our people Talented people are crucial to the delivery of our commercial success.
They apply their specialist insight and expertise to creating and operating differentiated destinations that deliver value for stakeholders.
Theynegotiate and manage the partnerships that support an efficient capital structure and strong operational base.
Our people strategy ensures that we recruit, nurture and retain the right people.
We closely monitor our performance, with a particular focus on creating the right culture, driving engagement, talent management and diversity and have seen positive movement across all key metrics in 2016.
The Companys acquisition of the Dundrum Delivering our business strategy Our people shopping centre in Ireland required us to establish Our people strategies and activities are designed to highlights a new team in Dublin, many of whom transferred support the delivery of our business strategy.
to Hammerson from the previous owner.
The task Headcount They help us to attract talented people to our was significant, requiring us to on-board a large organisation.
They drive high levels of employee number of people within a short period of time.
retention, engagement and development: enabling More challenging was the need to implement the 572 colleagues to grow and fulfil their potential.
They change in a way that positively engaged our new ensure that we remain focused on nurturing colleagues: welcoming them to the Company and UK 358 industry leading leadership and management skills our ways of working.
France 135 and leveraging this capability every day.
And they On 7 July 2016, 131 new, Ireland based employees Ireland 79 create a dynamic and collaborative culture where joined Hammerson.
The transition was smooth, diversity is encouraged and embraced.
supported by an intensive induction and onVoluntary staff turnover Culture boarding programme which focused heavily on our values and ambition to drive an engaging and By value and scale of activityHammerson is a large inclusive culture.
organisation and yet we directly employ less than 10.9% 600 people across the UK, France and Ireland.
Talent management This enables us to get closer to our people, to UK 11.2% and succession planning understand what is important to them and where France 10.1% Talented people are critical to the success of we need to focus our energies in order to improve Hammerson.
They enable the Company to deliver performance, wellbeing and culture.
New joiners its business strategy, to grow and to deliver the Our values ambition, respect, collaboration, financial returns sought by our stakeholders and and responsibility underpin how we operate investors.
Whilst we will always take opportunities on a day-to-day basis.
They are embedded within 87 to strengthen the organisation with key external the organisation and drive our resourcing, appointments, we are committed to developing our induction, development and performance UK 72 own talent pipeline, ultimately growing our future management processes.
France 15 managers and senior business leaders from within.
As well as our values, we are focused on how we In 2016, our now well established UK Graduate can enrich our culture still further and, during Internal moves and Programme once again delivered new talent to promotions the course of 2016, this was achieved by the the organisation.
During the course of the year, ongoing implementation of our diversity and three of our Graduates gained RICS accreditation inclusion strategy.
and took up positions within the business.
26 Danielle Moyles, who joined the Programme in As part of our ambition to promote greater 2013, is currently on secondment to Value Retail: diversity, and nurture an ever more inclusive thus gaining further exposure to the broader working environment, we delivered a series of Hammerson organisation.
all employee events during the course of the year celebrating International Womens Day, Whilst recognising that everyone has a vital role to World Cultural Day, London Pride, National play within our business, we continued to invest Work Life Week and International Day of significant time and energy in nurturing our high Persons with Disabilities.
Supported by a host of potential employees during the course of 2016: external speakers, the impact of these events was finalising personal development plans and potential considerable, driving meaningful and sustainable career paths for the vast majority.
Our ongoing focus changes in attitudes and behaviours, further in this area, which resulted in the Company filling strengthening the already positive culture that all of its senior management vacancies internally in exists within the business.
40 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR PEOPLE Employee engagement and retention Maintaining a highly motivated and engaged workforce with high levels of retention drives commercial advantage.
These are key objectives for Hammerson.
We monitor employee turnover on a rolling 12 month basis.
This allows us to identify trends at an early stage and to take appropriate actions when needed.
In 2016 voluntary staff turnover within our Group UK corporate headquarters was 6.7% and churn within our UK shopping centre management teams was 18.3%.
In France, turnover for the period was 10.1%.
Stability within our Ireland team will be vitally important as we grow our business there and we will monitor data from this territory during 2017.
Having a consistent approach towards measuring employee engagement within the Company has proved to be highly beneficial and, in 2016, we continued to utilise the Great Place to Work employee survey.
The survey gives us a significant amount of meaningful and objective management information which we then Danielle Moyles share with our employees via a series of detailed presentations.
A highlight was the appointment of Aurlie Siha to the position of Finance Director in France in November2016.
Aurelie had previously been identified on our senior management succession Employee survey highlights plan and was promoted from her role as Investment Director.
This promotion also gave the Company female representation 81% employee participation rate on the France senior management committee.
73% Trust Index Score in UK and France Less than 5% gender gap in employee engagement Highly engaged new Ireland team Exceptional scores for Corporate Social Responsibility, Diversity and Culture Within the UK our positive engagement score improved from just under 70% in 2015 to 73% in 2016.
We were also encouraged by the progress made in nearly all areas of the business.
Furthermore, we achieved scores in excess of 80% in the areas of Culture, Diversity and Corporate Social Responsibility: the latter two scoring 89%.
Our Irish team were new additions to Hammerson in 2016.
We wanted to assess their levels of engagement and to get an initial sense of how well they had integrated into the business.
Therefore, we were encouraged to achieve a positive engagement score of 76% within our Dublin headquarters and an impressive 81% with the Dundrum shopping centre management team.
Aurlie Siha Whilst the results of our survey in France showed similarly high In looking to strengthen its strategic capability at the most senior levels of engagement, we were slightly disappointed that the overall levels within the business, Hammerson created a new role in score dropped from 79% to 73%: albeit that 79% of employees 2016: Managing Director UK and Ireland.
As well as assuming responded positively to the key engagement question taking responsibility for the Companys 5.9 billion retail portfolio in everything into account I would say this is a great place to work.
these territories, the appointment of Mark Bourgeois, currently Chairman of Revo formerly the British Council of Shopping In 2014 we publicly stated a number of key diversity and Centres, will enhance our already experienced and capable Group inclusion related targets for the business.
One of these related to Executive Committee whilst also enabling the future growth of our employee engagement and the requirement for the gender gap, retail senior management team.
as measured by the Great Place to Work survey, to be no greater than 5%.
In 2016 the gap was 3.4% in the UK and 5.4% in France, demonstrating that our employee proposition and culture are resonating positively with both our male and female employees.
COM 41 Our people continued When considering our senior management population, our Learning and development objective for at least 30% of such roles to be held by women has not In addition to implementing our talent management and changed.
By the end of 2016 this figure stood at 26.2%, with women succession strategies, we continue to invest heavily in a broad suite occupying 11 of the Groups 42 senior management positions.
of learning and development solutions: all designed to enable our Within the UK and Ireland woman occupy ten of the 30 senior employees to grow and fulfil their potential.
Supporting our management population continues to be a key Our ambition to improve female representation at senior levels priority for Hammerson and, during the course of 2016, a further within the business will continue, despite the challenge of the Real 65 managers attended our in-house Management Development Estate talent pool being dominated by men.
To this end, we are Programme.
Now in its third year, this modular programme built proud to be a founding member of the Future Boards Scheme.
The around the Companys management competence model has purpose of this initiative is to develop senior female executives and been hugely successful and work has already begun to improve the help prepare them for full board and or non executive roles.
We are content and raise the bar still further from 2017. currently progressing the implementation plans with our partners, As part of our commitment to upskill and inspire our people in with the intention that one of our senior, female executives will sustainability, a further three of our senior leaders attended the participate in the programme and that Hammerson will act as a Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership course in 2016. hosting board for a yet to be determined female executive from This programme gives senior executives the knowledge, confidence another organisation.
and commitment to reconcile profitability and sustainability We are mindful that much good work can be undone in the area and to lead the charge needed to create ever more desirable and of diversity and inclusion if it is not underpinned by fair pay and sustainable places.
For some years, we have undertaken a Group internal pay Our ambition to become an ever more inclusive employer was audit where we compare the salaries, benefits and bonus payments supported by our learning and development activities during made to our male and female employees.
The results of our 2016 2016: a year in which all of our employees attended unconscious audit showed a gender pay gap of 32% when comparing the mean bias training workshops.
These sessions, which followed similar basic salaries of our UK and Ireland employees.
In France, the programmes attended by senior management in 2015, were figure stood at just under 23%.
The variances reflect the relative designed to help everyone recognise the potentially negative over representation of male incumbents in our Board and senior impacts of bias and how these can be overcome through broader management roles.
However, when we consider the salaries paid thought and actions.
Such is the importance of the topic to to employees in similar roles, the mean for female employees was Hammerson, it will form the basis of our Learning Management higher in 50% of cases: a similar position to that we experienced System pilot in 2017, becoming a key component of our e-learning in 2015. offering to employees later in the year.
From 2018 we will publish our UK gender pay gap in line with the Diversity and inclusion governments guidelines: a requirement we welcome as it should help improve fairness and transparency across UK commerce During the last 12 months we have continued to implement our and industry.
Diversity and Inclusion strategy whilst undertaking a number of additional activities: all designed to deliver an ever more We welcome and fully consider all suitable applications for inclusive culture.
employment, irrespective of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, age, sexual orientation or disability.
All employees are eligible to Our commitment to competency based selection and promotion techniques continued to provide an encouraging gender mix participate in career development and promotion opportunities.
Support also exists for employees who become disabled to continue of appointments.
Of the 33 professional and management appointments made during the year 40% were filled by in their employment or to be retrained for other suitable roles.
Chart 23 Chart 24 Chart 25 Chart 26 All employees Board Senior management Shopping Centre excluding Board Managers Male 296 276 8 2 31 11 13 7 Female Figures as at 31 December 2016 42 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
