"Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate and social responsibility Our approach to corporate and social responsibility. """
Hansteen continues to support local and national charities.
Regular events are held in each office to support charitable causes.
Environment People In line with Hansteens policy of being The present and future success of Hansteen are currently sponsoring their Assessment environmentally and socially responsible, is dependent upon its ability to recruit, of Professional Competence APC environmental legislation and relevant codes motivate, manage and retain appropriately development.
The APC gives the interns of practice are adhered to.
With this in mind we embarked the practical training and experience Hansteen seeks to reduce emissions and upon our second year of internships in Asset which, when combined with academic pollution.
Details of our greenhouse gas Management during the summer of 2016. qualifications, leads to full RICS membership.
emissions are detailed in the Directors Report.
This sponsorship involves providing Following the success of the previous the interns with peer-to-peer learning, Community year, when five paid interns were recruited, workshops, senior mentorship and mock Hansteen recruited a further four paid interview panels.
Our Graduates continue Hansteen continues to support local and interns across the United Kingdom, offering to enjoy a 100% first-time APC pass rate.
Regular events are held them the chance to manage a set number in each office to support charitable causes.
The interns were incentivised We continue to seek new and innovative We will support staff who voluntarily give on lettings achieved within their property ways to enhance our support of the regional up their time to participate in charitable portfolio and as we discovered in the previous universities.
We have conducted student programmes during working hours.
year, each intern demonstrated striking workshops designed and led by our Asset We continue to run a work experience creativity in the marketing of their properties.
Managers and for the past two years we have programme with a local school in London.
joined course leaders on judging panels to The scheme is designed to offer the interns a formally assess student presentations.
In comprehensive view of asset management so providing direct and constructive feedback, that their learning experience as well as their we aim to support and stretch the students employability after graduation is enhanced.
personal and professional development To date, Hansteen has offered four interns in boardroom and interview scenarios.
"permanent jobs as Graduate Surveyors and Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19 Corporate and social responsibility continued "" We welcome and fully consider all suitable applications for employment, irrespective of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, age, sexual orientation or disability."
We welcome and fully consider all suitable continue in their employment or to be Equality and diversity applications for employment, irrespective of retrained for other suitable roles.
Hansteen has a diverse workforce and gender, race, ethnicity, religion, age, sexual commitment to being an equal opportunities orientation or disability.
All employees are As at 31 December 2016, the composition employer.
We understand that the eligible to participate in career development of Hansteens employees, including both performance and engagement of our and promotion opportunities.
Support also Executive and Non-Executive Directors, employees is critical to our business success.
exists for employees who become disabled to was as follows: Our employment policies and practices reflect a culture where decisions are made solely on Number Percentage the basis of individual capability and potential Male Female Male Female in relation to the needs of the business.
"Directors including Non-Executive Directors 5 2 71 29 Senior managers and Company Secretary 4 3 57 43 All other staff 49 40 55 45 Underpinned by our values Trust Entrepreneurship Excellence Teamwork We are We forge We strive Our people honest, open opportunities for excellence are at the and direct in by considering in everything heart of our our dealings investment that we do success prospects from multiple angles 20 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements "" Hansteen is committed to act with integrity and this is central to the way we do business and crucial to our external credibility and reputation in the marketplace."
in the UK, Germany, the Netherlands, France Slavery and human trafficking Our supply chain and Belgium, Hansteens exposure to human statement We manage our business through our rights risks, including modern forms of slavery, Introduction experienced regional teams working with is limited.
One area of vigilance is unpaid labour.
The Hansteen philosophy This slavery and human trafficking statement is Hansteen is specifically committed to ensuring is to develop long-term partnerships made by Hansteen Holdings PLC Hansteen there is no unpaid labour of any kind, both in with suppliers whose policies, values and or the Company pursuant to Section 54 1 our own business and in our supply chain.
cultures, including respect and integrity, of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and relates to are complementary to our own.
the Company and its subsidiaries in respect Our Employee Handbook sets our expectation of the financial year ended 31 December that our employees will maintain high Hansteen expects its suppliers to reflect our 2016.
This statement sets out the measures standards when it comes to ethical business standards, including paying a fair wage to their that Hansteen has taken to address the conduct and requires that our relationships workers, respecting human rights, meeting risk of slavery and human trafficking taking with competitors, suppliers and clients must their obligations under employment legislation place in our business and within our supply be based on high standards of personal and and investigating their own supply chains for chain through 31 December 2016. professional ethics.
All of our employees have slavery and human trafficking issues and risks.
an important role to play in the management Our position on human rights of risk and this includes being alert to the risk Reporting of slavery, forced labour and human trafficking The principle of respect is one of Hansteens Any employee or any person engaged in our in our business and in the wider supply chain.
key tenets and this includes respect for supply chain who has any concerns with our human rights, including the right to be free organisation or our supply chain may and Our people from slavery and servitude.
Hansteens is expected to raise their concerns directly Human Rights Policy recognises and seeks We believe that the risk of any slavery or with the Director of Operations or by making to safeguard the human rights of those the human trafficking in the employment or a report in accordance with Hansteens Company has contact with and responsibility engagement of our own employees is low.
Whistleblowing Policy to the Designated for in the business areas in which we Hansteen operates a robust recruitment Whistleblowing Officer.
All such reports will operate.
We support the principles set out and engagement programme and we be investigated by the relevant person.
in the United Nations Universal Declaration have provided guidance and training to our of Human Rights and the International employees with hiring and procurement This Statement was approved by Labour Organizations Declaration on responsibilities to support our expectations the Board on 19 March 2017.
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
and legal obligations in respect of equal Our Human Rights Policy is built on these opportunities and fair labour practices.
foundations, and supports the principles Wealso have in place a range of supporting of equal opportunity, collective bargaining, employment policies, processes, procedures freedom of association and protection and guidelines which reflect current from forced adult or child labour.
The Policy legislation and best practice and which are is being extended to embrace the specific targeted at safeguarding the interests of concerns of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. employees and potential employees and other people such as contractors who Hansteen is committed to act with integrity work for our business.
These include policies and this is central to the way we do business addressing: Diversity and Inclusion, Equal and crucial to our external credibility and Opportunities, and Dignity at Work.
As a business operating in the property investment market Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21
