Strategic report Our people 55 Our people We employ great people and we nurture their passion and ingenuity so that they can create compelling shopping experiences that put a smile on our customers faces We have strong recruitment processes that ensure we employ the best potential talent so that we can ll roles from within the business.
This year we recruited 556 staff externally and 68 from within.
Reecting our communities Diversity is important to us as a people business with over 400 million customer visits a year we want our workforce to both reect the communities around our centres and understand our customers.
Our 2016 staff survey shows that across the business we have 52 nationalities and the ethnic background of our staff is close to that of the UK see page 57.
Whether apprentices starting out We are in the top 20 per cent of FTSE 100 or experienced senior managers, we companies for the number of women at employ some of the most motivated senior and executive management levels and enthusiastic people available to with over 33 per cent of female staff make sure our shopping centres are the at this level FTSE Women Leaders, most popular in the country.
Our people Hampton-Alexander Review 2016. are at the heart of our business, living our values and delivering the intu We are now looking to broaden the difference that sets us apart.
diversity of staff at other levels and in all characteristics, which is why we have Our employees are talented individuals applied to the National Equality Standard and our culture enables them to be bold, fines.
We are in the process of gathering creative and genuine in their work to evidence from across the business make shopping at intu a joyful experience.
to support our application and to demonstrate our commitment to A diverse and successful team equality, diversity and inclusion.
We aim In return for their commitment, we to achieve the fines over the next year.
strive to be a great employer, promoting diversity and inclusion, treating our A good job employees fairly and enabling them In line with our intention of being a great Highlights of the year to grow professionally and personally.
employer we are making sure we treat the success and growth of the our staff members fairly, and pay them apprenticeship scheme We have 2,578 staff employed: 2,555 in properly for their work.
expansion of our leadership 15 locations across the UK, in 14 centres development programme and our head office at 40 Broadway: and We are committed to ending the gender the elimination of zero-hours contracts 23 in our recently established Madrid pay gap and we will comply fully with Win Your Dream recognition award office.
Of these, 2,117 are frontline the Equality Act Gender Pay Gap the first edition of our new staff shopping centre staff, directly employed Information regulations when they magazine Chorus by our facilities management arm, intu come into force.
We will make preliminary Retail Services.
disclosures in line with the regulations from April 2017.
56 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Ou O r people continued Al All l our UK staff over the age of 18 who to enter the industry from a broader Win Your Dream m ha have completed their probation are paid range of backgrounds, once again The first annual w winn inne er r of o of ou ur r W Win in Y Yo our ur a ab bove the National Living Wage, and enhancing our commitment to diversity Dream recognition scheme, launched in those on probation receive at least the and inclusion.
2015, received his prize at a ceremony in National Living Wage, even staff not March 2016.
Aaron Brett from intu Lakeside strictly covered by regulation.
The six apprentices we recruited at was nominated for his dedication, team spirit three centres for the 2015-2016 pilot and bold attitude.
As just one example, We have been working to eliminate all programme have completed their first he initiated a full ret to create a modern, zero-hours contracts, an ambition year, in either technical or non-technical comfortable break out area for intu staff.
In their second year We spend so much time, money and effort they will focus on a more specic creating a nice experience for customers, Talent development discipline.
We have rolled the scheme out the team really appreciated that something We have continued with programmes nationally and for 2016-2017 we have had been done for them, said Aaron.
that develop insight and understanding recruited an additional 14 apprentices.
of the strategic direction of the business.
Aarons dream Project Daring is taking forward new ideas Employee engagement was a Rolex for the business generated during last Making sure our staff understand Cosmograph years leadership development project.
our business and know how they can Daytona: contribute to intus success is crucial to Its not just Twelve managers started our leading our progress.
We use a range of channels a watch to self leading others leading change to communicate with our staff wherever me, its an programme and over 100 operational they work in the business, using our investment managers are enrolled on our world class intranet, regular staff meetings and and something manager training, a web-based course briengs.
Each location also has its that can be tailored around the needs of intu.
passed on through the Graduate recruitment continues to be This year we published the first edition family for important to our talent development.
We of Chorus, our new quarterly employee generations are working to create a more structured magazine by staff for staff, produced by to come.
programme that encourages graduates 88% 92% 86% understand intus agree intu puts customers of all staff took part in vision and values at the heart of everything the survey 2015: 89% 2015: 90% we do 2015: 94% World class service Our culture Three members of the intu Eldon Square Our purpose is simple to create joy in our interactions with customers and make them smile, team celebrated 40 years of service in 2016. because we know that happy customers make happy retailers.
Starting shortly after Concordes maiden This is the key to achieving our commercial focus running the most popular shopping centres voyage and before the very first episode in the UK.
It is a simple focus that can be understood by everyone in the organisation.
of Star Wars was released, front-of-house Our culture permeates our business.
Our aim is that every single person who works at intu manager Vince Mulligan above left, with understands our purpose and our business and is focused in the same direction.
general manager Phil Steele, multiSo everyone, regardless of role or seniority, goes through the same training programme disciplined craftsman Jon Coarse and to understand our purpose, our brand promise and our values.
Our values bold, creative, labourer Brian Shaw have been with the genuine encourage us all to behave in the right way and do the right thing: the right thing centre from the very beginning.
for our customers, for our retailers, for the environment and for society.
Our people This magnicent achievement the first understand that if they apply our values in all their work they will be part of continuing intu staff ever to reach this milestone to create a successful and responsible shopping centre business.
was marked with a presentation by Our culture drives our business and is inseparable from it.
Chief Executive David Fischel in June.
Strategic report Our people 57 an editorial committee of volunteers We will achieve the fines and renew and Diversity at intu from our centres and 40 Broadway.
enhance our Investors in People status.
Age prole Our annual UK staff survey continues We will work with Pathways to Property to reect widespread employee and other agencies to structure our engagement, with 83 per cent 2015: graduate programme to enable graduates Under 35 36% 84 per cent of staff proud to work for to gain a broader experience across the 35-55 48% intu, and 92 per cent 2015: 94 per cent business and enhance their chances Over 55 16% agreeing intu puts customers at the heart of becoming future leaders in intu.
This year 86 per cent of all staff took part in the survey 2015: 89 per cent.
UK gender prole The survey shows a growing internal awareness of our unifying thought with Human rights Female Male a jump since last year from 54 per cent to 78 per cent.
While the overall At intu we respect the dignity, liberty and 1,048 1,507 engagement index dipped slightly from equality of everyone we work with.
Our 2015: 1,032 2015: 1,512 last year, from 769 to 756, it is still at its policies and procedures are consistent with second highest level since we started the the United Nations universal declaration measure in 2011.
The survey highlights of human rights, which sets a common UK gender prole senior managers a number of areas for improvement and standard of achievement for all peoples we have put in place a detailed process and all nations.
We are committed to Female Male of action planning for the year ahead.
implementing the UN guiding principles Staff forums will discuss local issues on business and human rights.
work with people who choose to work 2015: 9 2015: 20 freely and we respect their rights to equal Our employee engagement programme opportunities and freedom of association.
Win Your Dream celebrates employees We work with our suppliers, retailers and across intu who have gone above and associated companies to ensure they beyond to deliver the intu brand promise meet acceptable standards of human 52 of making people smile, whether its dignity in their own sourcing policies.
nationalities customers, tenants, members of the We will continue to evaluate the pay and employed at intu public or other colleagues.
It is now in conditions of all our employees, to ensure its second year with new categories all staff earn above the National Living for innovation and for outstanding Wage, and enjoy fair working conditions.
Ethnic background commitment to health and safety.
Fair treatment of people who work for intu or our suppliers is a key focus of our intu We continue to encourage staff to corporate responsibility approach.
achieve their personal and professional As appropriate our Board CR Committee White British 88% goals and to take part in our CR, and CR Management Committee consider Asian or 4% community support and sustainability Asian British the potential human rights risks faced by programmes.
More than one in five took Black or 4% intu and assess approaches to mitigate advantage of the working days intu makes Black British those risks.
Other 4% Modern Slavery Act Our plans for 2017 This year we worked to implement the UK As the intu business spectrum expands we requirements of the Modern Slavery Act, will be providing more opportunities for White British 87% including a new policy on Modern Slavery functional specialists to develop a broader Asian or 7% and Human Rights and communications understanding of our strategic direction.
Asian British to our suppliers on their requirements.
Black or 3% Read our Modern Slavery Act Disclosure We will continue to develop our Black British on our website.
leadership programmes and extend the Other 3% capabilities of our talented management, Read more at intugroup.
co. uk both at 40 Broadway and in operational management at our centres.
