JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 40 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Review We have continued with our comprehensive programme of corporate social responsibility CSR activities.
Our aim is to make apositive difference to both our colleagues and the communities inwhich we operate Community and charity Volunteering to over half a million customers but they The Group has a comprehensive In June 2016 we offered our colleagues also have relatives, neighbours and know programme of charitable and community the opportunity to volunteer in the local people in their communities who are activities to support our CSR policies.
community with days out doing various facing these challenges.
A group of people helped out will be part of our task-force to support Community by doing conservation work at Happy our social purpose of helping people We undertook a number of community Valley, Croydon Councils largest area manage their money, build social and initiatives during 2016, designed to of public open space, comprising digital connections, in promoting healthy help us engage with the communities chalk downland, hay meadows and minds and encouraging people to surrounding our primary operational ancient woodland.
Colleagues also spent time at Spitalfields Charitable donations Schools programme City Farm, which is close to our London We have made donations to corporate Our colleagues are keen to help share office, helping out with the general and company charities: Alzheimers their wide knowledge and experience day-to-day upkeep.
Both events were Research UK: Dementia UK: Meningitis within our communities and the schools extremely well received.
Now: the Northern Ireland Hospice: and engagement programme offered staff St Catherines Hospice which is a charity the opportunity to participate in various These activities were part of a wider local to our Surrey offices.
In addition to activities in primary and secondary well-being initiative which included a making corporate donations to Dementia schools based in Redhill, Reigate and range of activities to help support our UK and Meningitis Now, we matched Tower Hamlets, London.
In Tower colleagues on the themes of health, funds raised for the other charities and Hamlets, people spent time at a primary well-being and team-building exercises.
provided support for other fundraising school helping students with their events in which our colleagues are keen reading and feedback from the school Looking forward to 2017 to get involved.
has been very positive, in many cases In 2017 our CSR programme is being having seen a demonstrable uplift in reviewed to ensure it continues to In addition to the corporate charities, we students grades.
In Redhill and Reigate, support our new Groups business and also encourage our colleagues to become we continued our partnership with the brand strategy.
As a specialist financial involved in fundraising activities for their educational charity SATRO, supporting services group focussed on the own preferred charities and give smaller the community with mentoring within retirement sector, we are acutely aware donations in sponsorship.
This has been very that many millions of people face difficult successful in helping colleagues to challenges in later life.
The Just brand, develop skills that are hugely transferable which has a strong social purpose at the within their roles in the business, core, is committed to raising awareness including listening, coaching and of these challenges and helping to find developing others, along with giving the solutions to improve the lives of people mentees at the school extra support approaching and in-retirement.
Our during their GCSE years.
colleagues provide outstanding service Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41 Strategic Report GHG Emissions Statement We are committed to reducing the environmental impact of our business Comparison The Group has reduced its consolidated Reporting period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 year carbon dioxide emissions by 2% over the tCO2e past year.
The Group has attained ISO tCO2e previous 14001 accreditation and carried out an current reporting year ESOS-compliant energy audit.
reporting consolidated tCO2e % year 2016 2015 difference This has identified several areas which Scope 1 Natural gas 95 95 will allow us improve our operational Scope 2 Electricity 1,311 1371 5 energy efficiency and reduce our carbon footprint to meet the UK governments Scope 3 Business travel and waste 884 861 3 carbon reduction targets.
Total emissions 2,290 2,327 2 We have reported on all the emission Intensity measurement Tonnes of CO2e per FTE 1.38 1.42 3 sources required under the Companies Intensity measurement Tonnes of CO2e per total Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors m sales revenue 0.90 0.85 6 Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statement.
We have used the GHG Protocol The Group has identified relevant activity We do not have responsibility for any Corporate Accounting and Reporting data for scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions with emission sources that are not included Standard revised edition, and emission the support of independent consultant, in our consolidated statement.
factors from UK governments GHG Alphacello.
Data from all emission Conversion Factors for Company sources has been collected and the Reporting 2016. validity and completeness of the dataset was checked by Alphacello.
Approach to assurance Our reporting period is 1 January 2016 We have measured our scope 1, 2 and significant Data from all emission sources has been collected 31December 2016, which we set using scope 3 emissions.
and the validity and completeness of the dataset a fixed-base year approach.
Targets was checked by Alphacello.
Base year We have set annual targets in accordance with Auditors and are certified with STROMA, Lead Due to the merger of Just Retirement & the recommendations set out by UK Government Energy Assessor ID: STRO101125.
Partnership Assurance a new fixed base year to reduce business carbon emissions.
Carbon offsets has been set, which will be 2016 1 January included in our Energy Saving Opportunity At present, carbon offsets do not form part of our 31 December.
This allows the Group to accurately Scheme ESOS Energy Pack, and have been carbon mitigation strategy.
monitor and compare results for future statements.
submitted to the Environment Agency.
Intensity measurement The calculation of our total GHG emissions was We use both a financial emissions intensity carried out using the GHG Protocol Corporate metric tonnes CO2e per m sales and a Accounting and Reporting Standard revised headcount intensity metric tonnes CO2e per FTE edition, encompassing ISO 14064 1:2006 to normalise our data and provide useful standards and using DEFRA 2016 emission factors.
Organisational boundary business travel accounts for most the Groups We have used the financial control approach to carbon footprint.
Since our revenue is largely identify the GHG emissions for which we have relative to our business activity levels with our responsibility.
The boundaries of our reported clients which in turn influences our level of emissions comprise all locations operating in business travel and revenue growth, these are the United Kingdom.
the most appropriate and useful intensity measurements for our sector.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 42 Strategic Report Corporate clients Corporate Clients Solving problems for companies We have brought together The Open We develop scalable Market Annuity Service TOMAS and Just Retirement Solutions JRS to retirement-focussed create HUB Financial Solutions HUB, the new name for our company that provides services to UK businesses solutions for banks, and their customers.
building societies, life assurance companies, pension scheme trustees and other corporate clients Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 Strategic Report Risk management Through our strong risk culture, we are confident of making better decisions toachieve business success Risk management Financial risk modelling is used to assess Purpose the amount of each risk type against our We use risk management to make risk appetite.
This modelling is aligned to better informed business decisions both our economic capital and regulatory that generate value for shareholders capital metrics to allow the Board to while delivering appropriate outcomes understand the capital requirements for for our customers and providing our principal risks.
By applying stress and confidence to other stakeholders.
Our scenario testing, we gain insights into risk management processes are designed how risks might impact the Group in to ensure that our understanding of risk different circumstances.
underpins how we run the business.
Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Risk framework The Groups Own Risk and Solvency Our risk management framework Assessment ORSA further embeds is developed in line with our risk comprehensive risk reviews into our environment and best practice.
Our framework, owned by the Group Board, annual ORSA report is a key part of our covers all aspects of risk management business cycle and informs strategic including risk governance, reporting and decision making.
Our appetite for different types prepared each quarter to keep the of risk is embedded across the business to Board apprised of the Groups evolving create a culture of confident risk taking.
Risk evaluation and reporting We evaluate risks in our operating environment and decide how best to manage them within our risk appetite.
Management regularly review their risks and produce reports to provide assurance that material risks in the business are being mitigated.
The Risk function, led by the Chief Risk Officer CRO, challenges the management team on the effectiveness of its risk evaluation and mitigation.
The CRO provides the Group Boards Risk and Compliance Committee with his independent assessment of the principal risks to the business and emerging risk themes.
