Governance Social and Corporate Responsibility Behaving responsibly has always been a priority for Ladbrokes More detail on this analysis and our CR programme as a whole Coraland fair play is built into the way we do business.
We take pride in is contained in our 2016 CR report which is available on our being a leader in our sector in responsible betting and gaming, having websiteat: www.
com apositive impact on our communities and operating with integrity.
Leading the way in responsible betting Establishing our priorities and gaming The betting and gaming landscape is continually evolving and we At Ladbrokes and Coral, we have always been pushing the have to change with it.
Expanding our multi-channel offerings and boundaries of our understanding of responsible gambling entering new markets and jurisdictions are some of the ways we behaviours and exploring options for harm minimisation.
are keeping pace with the market.
Each of our new offerings brings Wherepossible, we work with the rest of the industry on challenges some of which have implications for our Social and responsible gambling issues and are active participants of the Corporate Responsibility CR programme both locally and globally.
Association ofBritish Bookmakers ABB and Remote Gambling Associations RGA responsible gambling committees.
We were key Ladbrokes Corals CR strategy focuses heavily on the key issues instigators insetting up the IGRG Industry Group on Responsible forour business.
Through a formal materiality assessment, we Gambling and the Senet Group.
haveidentified a range of themes and emerging societal issues thathave relevance to the Company.
During 2016, we reassessed Ladbrokes Coral is fully aligned with the UK Gambling Commissions how important these issues were to our stakeholders employees, principal objectives to ensure that gambling is crimefree, fair customers, shareholders, regulators and the general public, and andopen, and children and vulnerable people areprotected.
how much they are, or could be, a key driver for the business.
Wecommit to these objectives across thewhole of our business Theresults are illustrated in the chart below.
Due to the sensitive wherever we operate.
nature of the issues we have anonymised the exact details in Cross-industry collaboration thematrix below but each symbol represents the view of the We are proud to be a founding member of the industry selfimportance of the risk to the business according to a stakeholder.
regulatory body The Senet Group.
This is an independent body set Unsurprisingly, the areas identified for our greatest focus included: up to promote responsible gambling standards across the industry.
the promotion of responsible gambling behaviours: providing As a member, we have signed up to several responsible gambling betterplayer information and harm minimisation strategies, commitments, which include: especially around machine play: ensuring the safety ofour staff A voluntary TV advertising ban on sign-up offers free bets and customers: and overall crime prevention.
Talentattraction andfree money before 9pm: andretention, sports integrity, customer privacyand data security Withdrawing all advertising of gaming machines from betting arealso important areas to us.
shop windows: CR materiality matrix Dedicating 20% of shop window advertising to responsible gambling messages: Delivering a national responsible gambling advertising campaign: and Running responsible gambling messages in all our print advertising and across our websites.
Through the latter commitment, we have been contributing toanindustry trial impact assessment of responsible gambling messaging.
We have also been trialling different types of messaging to evaluate their impact and effectiveness.
We will usethe outputs from this trial to help develop industry-standard messaging across all operators.
Relevance to business and commercial goals Workforce and Economics labour standards Ethics Community and society Governance and risk Wider human rights Responsible gambling Environment Customers 60 ladbrokescoralplc.
com Stakeholder importance Social and Corporate Responsibility Through our involvement in several other industry working groups, The total contribution of Ladbrokes and Coral towards responsible such as the ABB, we have: gambling research, education and treatment was 2.299 million.
Ofthis, 1.383 million was donated to RGT, now known as Helped to develop and now rolled out the Responsible Gambling GambleAware, 700,000 was the contribution to the Senet Group, Code 2015 incorporating new requirements for advertising and with the rest representing donations to GamCare and the Young player protection.
The Code includes best practice standards Gamblers Education Trust.
forthe use of behavioural data to identify customers who may In addition, during 2016 we have also: be developing problems with their gambling based on agreed markers of harm this measure enables shop staff to engage Developed a new Group Ethics Code.
The new Code outlines earlier with customers who may be at risk: thestandards and behaviours that we expect from all our Helped to pilot and implement a multi-operator retail selfcolleagues, contractors and business partners, wherever they exclusion scheme, MOSES http: self-exclusion.
Under arein the world, whatever local practices are and wherever this scheme, any customer who visits one of the participating theyconduct business on behalf of the Company, its subsidiaries shops and feels they are getting into difficulty with their and joint ventures: gambling can now self-exclude by contacting a central team Donated 180,000 directly to GamCare to assist the organisation ofadvisers.
The team will then tailor their self-exclusion based in establishing three youth hubs across the UK, providing advice, onlocations they frequently visit.
We are working with industry early interventions and links to treatment for young people at colleagues, led by the RGA, on an online equivalent National risk of becoming problem gamblers.
The programme was first Online Self-Exclusion Scheme NOSES that is set to be piloted in Bristol and showed positive results: operational by the end of 2017: and Worked in partnership with the Young Gamblers Education Trust Developed and launched new Player Awareness Systems PAS YGAM to develop the UKs first nationally recognised qualification tominimise harm of machine play.
The PAS initiatives are based around Safeguarding and Harm Minimisation.
Aimed at colleagues on research that showed it was possible to distinguish between working in the betting industry, the course will be equivalent to problem and non-problem gambling behaviour by players using aGSCE or BTEC, and it will complement our mandatory training gaming machines in licensed betting offices.
All members of and refresher courses on responsible gambling: theABB have signed up to the initiative, which is believed to Become founder members of Gamlag, a new cross sector beaworld first in retail betting.
Together we are helping to Promoting responsible gambling behaviours formulate an industry response to the UK government An important part of our responsible gambling programmes has consultation on the implementation of the EU Fourth Antibeen the development of bespoke algorithms to track customer Money Laundering Directive: behaviour and intervene when we suspect problem gambling might Become members of GAIN, the Government Agency Intelligence be occurring.
Ladbrokes and Coral have been developing bespoke Network.
GAINs primary role is to act as a channel for the PAS over the past two years and, following the recent merger of effective sharing of intelligence on organised crime across a large the two companies, we will be looking to take the best of both network of partners including all police forces in England and intoour operations going forward.
We are the only gambling business to be part of this.
Using data from our customer loyalty cards, The Grid and Connect, Keeping crime out of gambling we systematically assess the gambling habits of our customers, Reducing crime and anti-social behaviour remains a key priority having defined a set of rules that may indicate a player showing forus.
Our efforts to date have been focused on machine damage, signs of problem gambling.
Our aim is not only to detect and monitoring customer behaviour in and around our shops and, intervene when problem gambling occurs, but also to identify the eliminating gambling-related crime such as money laundering.
trajectories that lead to such behaviour.
If we believe a customer is Wehave also continued to be vigilant and active on all matters on a trajectory towards harm, then we will interact with them to relating to sporting integrity.
try and prevent this from happening.
It is already clear that PAS Where possible, we work in partnership with local authorities willoffer an important improvement in the way we can focus our andother bodies to ensure gambling remains crime free.
support on players identified as being at a heightened risk of Ourpartners include Crimestoppers, the Association of Business developing problems with their gambling.
Crime Partnerships and the Safe Bet Alliance SBA.
We continue To complement this, over the last year we have stepped up the tosupport the SBAs National Standards for Bookmakers.
promotion of responsible gambling messages.
We have introduced Following our review of health and safety H&S management at more prominent, more frequent and clearer messages on staying in Ladbrokes during 2015, we have rolled out a new Group H&S Policy, control in our shops, on our machines and across our Digital estate.
reviewed our risk assessment framework and are implementing a We promote multiple harm minimisation initiatives through our comprehensive safety management system across the business, support of the Responsible Gambling Trust RGT, now trading as starting in the UK.
During 2017 we will be evaluating the Ladbrokes GambleAware.
Organisations that benefited from RGT funding and Coral systems for safety and unifying our approach across the in2016 included GamCare, the National Problem Gambling Clinic two brands.
CNWL and the Gordon Moody Association.
Having effective data and information security systems in place isonly a first step to protecting our customer and corporate information from misuse.
Human behaviour can be the biggest Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Governance Social and Corporate  threat to cyber security.
To address this, we have developed Colleagues of the future engaging with our communities acomprehensive cyber security programme based on the During 2016 we continued our UK-wide apprenticeship scheme, UKGovernments 10 steps to Cyber Security.
During 2015 which is now in its fourth year.
The 12 month, fully supported welaunched a new information security web portal to help development programme provides candidates with accredited educateour employees and tell them what they need to know training in customer service, literacy and numeracy and responsible tominimise our risks.
We have implemented further elements gambling.
Upon completion, successful apprentices obtain an NVQ ofthis programme during 2016, including global staff training Level 2 in Customer Service and a position in one of our shops.
anddevelopment of our IT monitoring and security systems.
We have lifted the maximum age-restriction of the scheme so that any talented candidate can secure a place.
Ladbrokes Coral Group Having a positive impact now employs 1,000 apprentices and over 6,000 people under the on our communities age of 25.
An employer of choice Over the last year we also launched Committed to Communities, As our international operations continue to grow, it is important anew training module that gives our apprentices the tools that our people have plenty of reasons to be excited about working andopportunity to volunteer with local good causes or charities at Ladbrokes Coral and grow with us.
From the moment someone and develop ways to support and raise funds for them.
joins us, training and career progression are our top priorities.
Weoffer all of our people every opportunity they need to develop We have also deepened our partnership with the Coalfields and progress with us.
During 2016, we have further developed Regeneration Trust CRT who are our training provider for the ourlearning and development programmes across all our grades.
Through their family employment We have also extended our Females in Leadership programme, initiative, our additional support has enabled CRT to provide tailored offering mentoring opportunities and increasing the visibility of support to over 300 people, of whom over 40% have secured a job senior female role models.
and 20% have taken up training or education opportunities.
Gender diversity females as a % of total employees Economic contribution to society 1 Group Board Ladbrokes Coral Group employs over 26,000 people across more than 15 countries, generating employment and tax revenue whereverit does business.
According to the UK Gambling 22% 25% Commission, the UK betting industry provides employment 2016 2015 for105,000 people.
Research by Deloitte LLP indicates that the UK 1 Directors of Group companies betting industry directly accounted for 2.3 billion toward GDP andan indirect economic footprint worth 5 billion of GDP.
In 2016, 12% 7 out of 60 2016 5 Ladbrokes Coral Group paid a total of 353 million in wages and salaries, of which over 70% was in the UK.
13% 7 out of 55 2015 Our tax contributions 1, 2, 3 Tax revenue is vital to economic prosperity and social stability.
Senior managers Werecognise that our contribution to governments and national 23% 150 out of 651 2016 finances through the taxes we pay is important and significant.
Our approach to tax payments and disclosure is guided by the fourprinciples below: 20% 50 out of 255 2015 Accurate and timely compliance with tax law in all of the 1, 4 All employees countries in which we operate: Engaging proactively and openly with local and national tax 48% 12,124 out of 25,124 2016 authorities, including constructive engagement debates regarding the development of tax legislation and policy: 53% 7,403 out of 14,055 2015 Being transparent in the reporting of our tax affairs: and Achieving sustainable returns for our shareholders.
2 The top four management grades, including those who were also directors of Group companies.
Ladbrokes regularly took part in PwCs Total Tax Contribution 3 2016 data includes Ladbrokes: UK, Ireland, Gibraltar, Betdaq, Sportium, Belgium, Jersey and Coral: UK, Italy, Israel and Philippines: 2015 data includes Ladbrokes: UK, Ireland and Gibraltar.
survey, an annual benchmarking exercise comparing the total tax 4 2016 data includes Ladbrokes: UK, Ireland, Gibraltar and Australia and Coral: UK, Italy, Israel and contribution and wider socio-economic impacts of some of the Philippines: 2015 data includes Ladbrokes: UK, Ireland, Gibraltar and Australia.
In 2016, before the merger, Ladbrokes Our policies remain consistent with the requirements of the again took part and of the 100 companies taking part in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the spirit of the assessment, Ladbrokes was among the smallest when measured by International Labour Organization core labour standards.
However, the 2016 results showed again that a zero tolerance to modern slavery and human trafficking and Ladbrokes punched well above its weight, ranking 26th for taxes although we consider our business to be of low risk, we support the borne in the UK.
aims of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and have published our 5 2016 data includes 12 months Ladbrokes and two months Coral.
statement on modern slavery on all of our UK-facing websites.
com 1,2, 3,4 The betting industry pays over 1 billion to the Exchequer annually, Global GHG emissions by revenue making it one of the highest-taxed UK industries.
During 2016 2016 5 total impact 2015 wepaid more than 500 million in UK tax, duties and levies.
Metric tonnes CO e Thiscovers tax contributions of over 35 million to local councils 2 per m net revenue 26.3 39.6 inthe UK and over500 million in taxes to the UK Treasury and thegreyhound and horse racing industries.
Furthermore, we paidan additional 100million in international taxes across our GHG emissions from our global operations in tonnes CO e 2 markets of operation.
GB emissions International emissions Total taxes, duties and levies paid 2016 39,633 4,869 2016 42,419 5,051 2015 47,204 6,244 2014 1 B ased on 2016 UK Defra GHG reporting guidance and conversion factors and includes Scope 1: direct emissions from the combustion of fuel and Scope 2: indirect emissions from the purchase of electricity.
688m 2 E missions from our global operations include those arising from our businesses in the UK, Ireland, Belgium, Gibraltar and Spain.
Data for our recently acquired businesses in Australia, Israel and the Philippines is not included.
It is estimated based pro-rata on headcount that this will increase our global GHG emissions by no more than an additional 0.5%.
3 E xcluding fugitive emissions from refrigerants, which represent less than 2% of GHG emissions from our business operations.
5 Total impact of the merged company, includes 12 months of Ladbrokes and two months ofCoraldata.
Benchmarking our CR performance To see how well we are doing, we continually compare our UK gross profits taxes betting duties etc 408m performance with that of our peers through external UK horse and dog levies 26m benchmarking and peer review.
We actively engage with two UK corporation tax 10m investor indices, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI UK irrecoverable VAT 88m andFTSE4Good, both of which provide us with benchmarking UK business rates and other taxes 35m information on our CR programmes.
Ladbrokes plc the business UK employers national insurance 26m pre-merger has been a constituent of the DJSI for 14 years, an elite Foreign taxes 105m index for responsible companies.
Coral was not within the eligible universe being a privately-owned company.
Ladbrokes is the only Operating with Integrity European betting company included in the prestigious DJSI World As with any major business, our activities have an impact on the Index, achieving maximum scores of 100% for our approach to environment.
Our main impact is caused by the electricity and gas responsible gambling and our anti-crime measures.
Since 2002 used on our premises.
Fossil fuel consumption emits greenhouse Ladbrokes has also been a member of FTSE4Good.
This year we gases GHG which contribute to climate change.
Climate change were ranked in the 99th percentile of companies in our industry inturn poses a risk to our business, especially as we expand into segment, achieving maximum scores for customer responsibility overseas markets.
We continue to see benchmarking ourperformance as an important indicator of the relevance of Our carbon footprint ourCR performance.
Our like-for-like GHG emissions decreased by 20% in 2016.
Since2015 all Ladbrokes shops have been 100% lit by LED lighting.
For more information This was a major upgrade involving the replacement of over 98,000 Our CR Report contains further details on Fair Play at Ladbrokes fittings across 1,800 shops.
As a result of this, better use of energy Coral.
Our full disclosure and supporting documents are available at: dashboard systems and upgrades to our TV and air conditioning www.
com  systems, the energy usage within the Ladbrokes GB shop and officeestate decreased by 12% and GHG emissions by 22%.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63
