44 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 SOCIAL YOUR WORK, REACHING 779 OUT TO AND INSPIRING REVIEW Number of people who have gained THE PEOPLE FURTHEST ajob through our Community FROM THE LABOUR A focus on some of the key Employment Programme since 2011 MARKET AND EQUIPPING activities we carry out to support THEM WITH THE SKILLS our customers, communities, THEY NEED TO GET ON, 6,745 partners and employees.
Number of hours given to volunteering IS TO BE COMMENDED.
projects by our employees in 2015 16 Rt Hon David Cameron MP, Prime Minister CUSTOMERS Understanding and meeting our customers EDUCATION 260,000 changing needs is central to everything we do.
As youll read throughout this Annual Amount raised since the beginning of our Through our education programmes we aim to: Report, we work hard to understand future partnership with Mencap in April 2014 Help young people develop commercial market dynamics and anticipate evolving skills and become more aware of careers requirements.
Ensuring high levels of customer in our wider industry satisfaction is one of our KPIs and we carry out Attract talent to Land Securities and annual surveys with customers to assess our promote diversity and social mobility In Retail, were making progress at different performance and gain insight.
For more on our within the property industry rates according to the location, type of asset work with occupiers see our London Portfolio Engage young people and education and timing of supplier contract renewals.
All and Retail Portfolio reviews on pages 2835. institutions in the development of our future tenders and contracts for our principal local communities contractors on new developments will stipulate Engage our employees and the our Living Wage requirements.
COMMUNITY EMPLOYMENT employees of partner companies in meaningful professional volunteering.
We work to help people from disadvantaged groups access training, job opportunities and CHARITABLE PARTNERSHIPS Along with these objectives, we find that apprenticeships in property, construction and successful activities can help to strengthen our We work in partnership with charities to: customer service, often on our development relationships with the communities around our Help people from disadvantaged sites and with partners who work alongside assets, including local pupils and their families, backgrounds get work experience and jobs us.
We also help to create opportunities and with Local Authorities.
Support education for young people for people once construction has finished, Respond to local inequalities and needs, including with our service partners in our such as homelessness.
buildings and retail and hospitality customers FAIRNESS who have space in our shopping centres.
To Our scale means that we are able to provide do this successfully, we collaborate with a wide We are committed to ensuring the working great support and exposure for one national range of organisations, from Local Authorities environment we control is fair and that everyone charity partner across our business currently to community groups, supply chain partners, who works on our behalf in an environment we Mencap as well as supporting local groups specialist training providers, charities and control is paid at least the Living Wage by 2020. at each of our shopping centres and other prisons.
All employees within the company, with the buildings.
Our partnerships involve everything Our award winning Community exception of trainees and interns, are paid at from providing space to hosting community Employment Programme is the bedrock of our least the Living Wage as defined by the Living awards, giving grants, offering pro-bono approach.
This started by addressing long-term Wage Foundation.
In London, 29 of our 33 support and volunteering.
unemployment in the capital and skills gaps service partners have committed to paying the in the construction industry.
extending the programme across our Retail Portfolio.
We have committed to help 1,200 disadvantaged people secure jobs by 2020.
All Executive Senior Chart 15 Committee Employees Leaders 53% 29% 26% 47% 71% 74% Men 294 Men 5 Men 23 For more please see our Sustainability Report Women 332 Women 2 Women 8 2016 at: landsecurities.
com sustainability STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Strategic Report Land Securities Annual Report 2016 45 Introduced a new development offer for the EMPLOYEE SURVEY RESULTS EMPLOYEE STRATEGY Executive Committee, including one to one AND PERFORMANCE coaching and mentoring, business school Our overall engagement score, at 88%, programmes and board-level networking was one point up from our last full survey.
We are clear on the capabilities that set us apart opportunities.
It exceeded the Towers Watson high from our competitors.
Put simply, its our ability to performing companies norm by 4%.
We saw Reward for performance Ensuring that our reward understand the changing needs of our customers, an improvement in most question categories, packages including base pay, benefits, annual communities and partners, and then our ability to with My Job authority, empowerment, clear bonus plans and long-term incentives help motivate use that understanding to read the market cycle responsibilities, tools for the job, Leadership and retain the people we need.
accurately, deliver complex projects and maximise clarity of vision, interest in employees, open financial, physical and social value.
Ensured that everyone understands the new communications channels and Development Over the past year our focus was on delivering bonus plan and can make a clear link between right people recruited and retained, outstanding developments in London and Retail.
reward and individual, team and corporate development opportunities identified as We are now preparing for the next phase, with less performance, and the potential outturns of the the key drivers of engagement.
emphasis on development and more on investment plan.
We are also building a Conducted a complete review of benefits to truly collaborative one company culture founded ensure that they appeal to all employees.
This on a well-understood purpose, vision and values.
HUMAN RIGHTS included a focus on wellness, including reduced Our leadership team has articulated and discussed gym membership fees and the extension of our this with every part of the organisation through a Further details relating to human rights and cycle to work scheme.
programme of open, two-way communication.
Our equal opportunities compliance appear in the Our recognition programme People into Action forthcoming London office move will also provide Directors Report on page 87. provided a total reward of 75,000 over the year a very tangible opportunity to bring our evolving for great examples of our values in action, both culture to life.
from employees and service partners.
We believe that developing greater diversity HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Engagement Articulating the purpose, vision and of thought within the organisation is fundamental to being a sustainable business.
This year we values to express our shared culture while enabling Our goal is to maintain an exceptional standard people to bring them to life in their own way, took further steps to make Land Securities truly of health, safety and security in all the working inclusive in terms of culture and people processes.
irrespective of background, race or gender.
We aim to be a meaningful channels for involving all our people in Broadening the talent pool is a sector-wide leader in this within our industry.
Our specific challenge: we aim to lead on this issue.
our business, and encouraging their feedback: objectives are: Created compelling visual material including Safety zero reportable health and safety a film and defined a common vocabulary and Key activities during the year: incidents imagery to support all internal communications Health every worker to have a Organisation Designing role, team, business around the purpose, vision and values.
unit and corporate structures that balance clarity transferable occupational health record Led the way in collaborating with our peers of accountabilities with the flexibility to adapt to Wellbeing all construction and managed to address the diversity challenge within our changing market conditions and evolving customer portfolio partners to have a wellbeing sector.
We chaired a new industry working needs.
group, which has set a common framework In Retail: marketing, research and for measuring progress, and identified commercialisation teams reorganised to support key collaboration opportunities including a more joined-up approach to brand activity, guidelines for recruitment activity, and school consumer trends and customer relationships.
In London: capabilities built to support the Continued to ensure that employees received transition from delivering developments regular updates on matters relating to their to maximising commercial and investment employment and the strategy and performance opportunities.
Weve also clarified leadership of the business including the financial and accountabilities and given several key people economic factors affecting it.
Thiswas more stretching, broader roles.
achieved through a combination of results Further consolidation of activities into central presentations by the CEO, regular executive, teams, including all the economic, social and management and town hall briefings, Food educational strands involved in sustainability, and for Thought forums, the Companys intranet finance activities previously managed locally at Landlink and social networking sites, and Bluewater.
Talent management Using our strong employee The Employee Forum continued to play brand to attract the best people.
Clarifying the an important role in helping the Executive skills and capabilities that the business needs and Committee communicate and consult retaining talent by providing outstanding career, with employees on key matters affecting learning and development opportunities.
the business, and similarly the Employee Conducted a thorough review of leadership Survey provided important feedback on strength and succession, including internal how employees feel about working for Land and external talent mapping related to future Securities.
Several cross-business We again invited all employees to take part in unit career moves took place as a result.
the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, Continued the roll-out of our development to encourage them to make a long-term programmes, with all Senior Leaders approximately 30 people having completed the investment in Land Securities.
