GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Desmond Smith Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Dear Shareholder, Following the completion of the Combination of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc Al Noor and Mediclinic International Limited on 15 February 2016, it is my pleasure to report on the activities of the Audit and Risk Committee the Committee for the reporting period ended 31 March 2016.
The Committee has remained focused on routine items such as its review of the fi financial results and ensuring the ongoing eff ectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management arrangements.
The Committees main focus up to 15 February 2016 was the Combination.
In the time following the Combination, the Committee has undertaken fi financial reviews of each Mediclinic platform, discussed accounting, tax and audit issues, the viability statement and conferred on the integration of the Al Noor Hospitals Group with the Group, as a result of the Combination.
Other activities and areas of focus of the Committee for the year are explained in more detail in the remainder of this report.
During the year, the Committee has been focused on meeting the viability statement requirements of the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Committee has, in conjunction with this, reviewed the stress testing undertaken by management of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties which support the viability statement.
The Committee has accordingly recommended to the Board a viability statement, which seeks to examine the Companys longer term solvency and viability, and which is detailed on AR page 29.
It was agreed that three years would be an appropriate time frametime frame to base the long-term viability statement as it takes into account the strategy, principal risks and uncertainties of the wider Group.
The Committee has reviewed the stress testing undertaken by management and recommended that the Board confi rm they can reasonably expect the Group to continue to be in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due, over the course of the threeyear assessment period.
The Committee will remain focused on evaluating the internal control, risk management and internal audit arrangements for the Group and the integration of Al Noor Hospitals Group.
The internal audit function was historically outsourced to Remgro Internal Audit.
The Committee benchmarked itself against best practice of the FTSE 100 companies, and concluded that the Group will exit the outsourced Remgro Internal Audit arrangement and will bring more internal audit resource in-house, including a Head of Internal Audit.
Finally, the Committee has considered the UK implementation of the EU Audit Directive and Regulation and has considered and updated its non-audit services policy.
This is explained in more AR detail on page 114.
107 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND MEETING ATTENDANCE The composition of the Committee remains in compliance with the Code, which provides that all members should be independent non-executive Directors.
Details on the composition of the Committee are explained and shown in the table and charts below.
The appointments of all the Directors to the Board and this Committee other than Ian Tyler and Seamus Keating, who were appointed in 2013 took place on 15 February 2016, following the Combination.
The Directors consider that each member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees.
The Board is also satisfied that the combined knowledge and experience of its members is such that the Committee exercises its duties in an effective, informed and responsible manner.
The composition and attendance of Committee meetings during the period under review are set out in the table below.
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE NUMBER OF COMMITTEE NUMBER OF COMMITTEE MEETINGS ATTENDED PRIOR MEETINGS ATTENDED AFTER 3 NAME QUALIFICATIONS TO THE COMBINATION THE COMBINATION 1 Desmond Smith B. Sc.
FASSA n a Committee Chairman 1 Alan Grieve B.
A. Hons, CA n a 1 Seamus Keating FCMA 2 of 2 1 Trevor Petersen B. Comm.
Hons, CA SA n a Ian Tyler ACA, B. Comm 2 of 2 2 William Ward B.
2 of 2 n a 1 AR Appointed following the Combination on 15 February 2016.
Their biographies can be found on pages 60 to 61 of the report.
2 Retired as a member of the Board and the Committee on 15 February 2016, being the completion date of the Combination.
3 Two Committee meetings were held since the Companys financial year end.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings.
Other attendees at Committee meetings may differ from time to time, and upon invitation from the Committee include Danie Meintjes Chief Executive Officer, Craig Tingle Chief Financial Officer, Edwin Hertzog Company Chairman, Pieter Uys alternate Director to Jannie Durand, and relevant management members.
The Committee may also invite representatives from the internal auditors Remgro Internal Audit and the external auditors  LLP and  Inc..
The composition and professional experience of the Committee is shown below.
COMMITTEE EXPERIENCE COMMITTEE COMPOSITION Actuarial Senior Independent 20% 20% Director SID Finance and Accounting Independent nonexecutive directors excluding SID 80% 80% 108 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION ensuring and confi rming compliance with the ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES CMA order: The Committee assists the Board with its reviewing, monitoring and approving the responsibility regarding fi financial reporting, internal Companys policy in respect of tax planning: and controls and risk management systems, compliance, reviewing, monitoring and approving the whistleblowing and fraud, as well as internal audit Companys policy in respect of the fi nancing of and external audit.
The Committees responsibilities the Company.
include but are not limited to: Further details on the Committees duties can be reviewing and monitoring the integrity of found in its terms of reference which are available on the Companys fi financial statements and the Companys website www.
announcements including: a review of the signifi cant fi financial reporting judgements contained therein, assessing the basis on which MAIN ACTIVITIES the Company has been determined a going The Committee, in its current form, met twice in concern, ensuring a robust assessment of the the period following the Combination and up to principal risks facing the Company and the the publication of this report.
A summary of the prospects of the Company when considering the Committees principal activities during the fi financial viability statement reported to shareholders, and year are detailed below and include the position prior a judgement on whether the fi financial reports are to and following the Combination.
fair, balanced and understandable: reviewing accounting policies, accounting PRIOR TO COMBINATION: treatments and disclosures in fi financial reports: assessing the Groups systems of internal fi financial AL NOOR HOSPITALS GROUP PLC and accounting control: Al Noor assessing and reviewing the eff ectiveness During the year, and prior to the Combination, of the Companys internal fi financial and the Committee was predominantly focused on the accounting control: Combination.
Other areas of the Committees focus overseeing and assessing the Groups included a review of the Groups half yearly fi financial management of all principal risks including: statements, the considerations in respect of the fi financial reporting risks, internal fi financial controls, viability statement, principal risks and uncertainties, fraud risks as they relate to fi financial reporting and risk management and internal controls framework, ICT risks as they relate to fi financial reporting: goodwill and impairment, non-audit services policy, ensuring Group-wide standards are set for Committee terms of reference, business ethics, Code achieving compliance with relevant laws of Conduct, internal audit plan and key priorities.
and regulations: The Committee also instructed management to reviewing the adequacy and security of the implement the SAP accounting system and discussed Companys arrangements for its employees rejection provisions in respect of payer relations.
regarding possible wrongdoing in fi financial reporting or other matters, fraud detecting MEDICLINIC INTERNATIONAL procedures and bribery prevention systems LIMITED and controls: The predominant focus of the Audit and Risk monitoring and reviewing the eff ectiveness of the Committee of the South African entity known Groups internal audit function in the context of as Mediclinic International Limited, was on the the Groups overall risk management system: Combination.
Other areas of the Committees focus overseeing the Companys relationship with its included reviewing the categories and thresholds of external auditors: non-audit services that the external auditors may making recommendations to the Board as to the provide, assessing the eff ectiveness of the Groups appointment or reappointment of the external internal control, accounting function and policies, and auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement evaluating the risk and control procedures, reviewing and engagement for non-audit services, and the interim fi financial statements and going concern monitoring the external auditors independence, status of Mediclinic International Limited and its objectivity and eff ectiveness: three operating platform companies.
The Committee reviewing the scope of the external audit, its also considered matters relating to the external and fi findings and the eff ectiveness of the audit process: internal audit, tax issues and fraud and ethics.
reviewing the overall relationship with the external audit fi rm including the provision of non-audit services to ensure that independence and objectivity are maintained: 109 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
