Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility NMC has been committed to practising a strong professional and social responsibility to its community, sustainable management of UAEs environment and ethical conduct and good governance in the workplace.
We believe that a crucial criterion of how We are also committed to active social NMCs preventive healthcare programme an organisation operates and how its responsibilities that go beyond legal in the UAE extends to providing free health success and development is measured is obligations and general ethical standards.
checks and screenings with regulatory the way in which it fulfils its responsibilities We actively pursue the interests and bodies, insurance companies and both within and outside its businesses, values of individuals and the local and corporates, such as polio, diabetes, cancer, is its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR.
Our CSR strategy focuses mainly on These moral obligations include: community, environment and workplace.
actively promoting preventive health Diabetes Month 2016 programmes designed to improve the This World Diabetes Month, NMC screened THE CSR PRINCIPLES health and quality of life of residents: well over 3,000 people at corporates and For over 40 years the Group has been funding and making publicly available communities.
The screenings included using its medical and non-medical the annual Health Index for the diabetic retinopathy with fundus camera, infrastructure along with our expertise UAE: and random blood sugar, cholesterol, blood in the region to positively impact introducing best practice pressure and BMI.
People were educated community, environment and workplace.
about diabetes through health talks and by NMC has been committed to practising Endocrinologists, Physicians and Nutritionist.
a strong professional and social These all contribute to the common responsibility to its community, good of people in the workplace, the Diabetic Retinopathy Free sustainable management of UAEs community and the environment.
Awareness Campaign environment and ethical conduct and An example of one of the community good governance in the workplace.
outreach campaigns NMC conducted was Responsibility a free Diabetic Retinopathy Awareness NMCS GENERAL APPROACH TO CSR to the Global and Campaign across NMC facilities in Abu NMC takes very seriously its social Dhabi, Dubai and Al Ain.
The campaign Local Community responsibility and supports the report was announced to the public through NMC Health has always been at the of the International Bioethics Committee radio, SMS, internal TV signages and forefront of building a healthier society of UNESCO on Social Responsibility roll ups in NMC facilities.
A total of 1,073 and a safer future for generations and Health.
This report interprets social patients were screened out of which to come.
Community screening and responsibility and healthcare delivery roughly 30% were identified with outreach programmes are one of the as both passive and active in how the condition.
ways we contribute towards profoundly to manage internal operations and the impacting the health of the society.
impact of activities on the community NMC ANNUAL HEALTH INDEX FOR This section will provide a glimpse of our and environment.
THE UAE Community Health Awareness programs The NMC Annual Health Index for the UAE through a few examples.
At NMC we engage in passive social is one of the most important and unique responsibilities by complying with all initiatives of our CSR programme that COMMUNITY SCREENING AND regulatory requirements and general strengthens our efforts to create a OUTREACH PROGRAMMES ethical standards, such as: healthier society.
The Health Index profiles Each year NMC actively undertakes respecting human rights: the health of UAE residents and provides copious amounts of screening non-discriminatory work practices: trending data for the development of programmes.
In 2016 we touched protecting privacy rights that hospital and public policy.
The Health the lives of over 350,000 UAE residents.
improve society: Index assesses the physical, social and The basic general health screening strict adherence to Anti-Bribery, emotional wellbeing of UAE residents and programme includes screening of Blood Anti-Corruption, Gifts and provides an overall index of the health of Glucose Levels BGL, Blood Pressure BP, Entertainment Policy by having a nation.
The findings of the Health Index Body Mass Index BMI for overweight a zero tolerance to such behaviour allow NMC to provide the most appropriate obesity and cholesterol levels.
These regardless of the identity or position public health education and screening simple tests can diagnose or predict the of the originator or recipient of a Bribe: programmes that best benefit the health risk of developing the 4 major nonwelcoming patients from all and lifestyles of UAE residents.
The Health communicable diseases of hypertension, segments of society, nationalities Index also provides information that diabetes, obesity and cardiovascular and income levels: and facilitates the formulation of a strategy disorders.
Preventing or slowing down having environmental policies and that addresses the perceived and actual the progress of these diseases saves practices that protect our society health issues in the UAE.
lives and improves Quality of Life QOL.
26 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Strategic Report NMC Health Index Key Findings 2016 The overall health and well-being have been relatively consistent amongst all the residents of the UAE.
CONTINUINGLY REVIEWING As a result, our overall greenhouse Responsibility to ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE gas emissions have decreased during the Environment We are continuing to look at initiatives the year in both our Distribution business NMC recognises the importance and to reduce our emissions.
As most of our and, on a like for like basis, in our our responsibility of environmental operations are in the UAE, we have taken Healthcare businesses.
Reflecting our role in the note of the UAE Vision 2021 a green to take our role as a corporate citizen sustainable management of UAEs economy for sustainable development.
seriously and therefore we continually environment, we are committed to The primary sources of our GHG review our operations and the impacts conducting our work in an environmentally emissions relate to the use of fuels in they have on the communities in which responsible way.
We operate in compliance vehicles in our distribution business and we operate.
with all relevant environmental legislation electricity consumption in our hospitals and we continue strive to use pollution and some of our initiatives focus on NEW FACILITIES prevention and environmental best these areas and are set out below: As highlighted in previous years, this practices in the workplace to minimise Awareness and training: All our strategic expansion programme brings our potential impact on the environment.
drivers have been provided with challenges in relation to reported training sessions on managing emissions.
When our new healthcare All employees in NMC have fuel consumption and identifying businesses become operational enthusiastically undertaken a inefficiencies.
Furthermore, there is for the first time, the average power fuel responsibility to work in a sustainable ongoing replacement of older vehicles consumption per patient can be high manner and reduce the negative with newer models that are more due to the lower occupancy rates in the impact of their own activities on environmentally efficient.
NMC is also newer facilities during their initial ramp the environment.
All managers considering converting fleet vehicles up phase.
In addition, in the case of some are responsible for implementing to run on LPG or CNG.
of our acquired businesses, initiatives this policy and are accountable Greenhouse gas emissions reporting: to monitor and reduce greenhouse gas for environmental performance We continue to collate and evaluate emissions have not previously taken in their areas of responsibility.
our energy consumptions and place, and the implementation of such greenhouse gas emissions across initiatives may take some time.
OUR ENVIRONMENT AND all our businesses.
The information ITS CHALLENGES is collated and reviewed on a regular This combination of issues can produce The extremely hot and humid weather basis as are the various emission spikes in emissions in certain years.
leads to the UAE being one of the highest reduction initiatives that are being Therefore, we have included in our per capita greenhouse gas emitters developed and implemented in order reported data above our emissions both globally.
The use of gases and refrigerants to share best practice.
including and excluding these entities.
is extensive, not only in the UAE as New Facilities: As noted below, We believe that this is an appropriate a whole, but also to ensure the most when our new healthcare businesses and transparent way to report our data appropriate environment within which become operational for the first time, so as to show a more accurate like for to treat and care for our patients, the average power fuels consumption like comparison to the prior year.
maintain our food and pharmaceutical per patient can be high due to the low stocks safely and to care for the welfare occupancy rates in these new sites.
We continually look at ways to make improvements in these operations.
In line with our CSR principles, we seek to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions where possible and hence limit our effect on the environment.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility continued This years report includes first year combustion of fuel from operation of for the first time.
This spike is due to reporting of GHG emissions by: facilities and usage of vehicles and scope the initial phase after opening whereby Dr Sunny Healthcare Group located 2 purchased electricity and cooling.
Gas hospitals are operational but patient in Sharjah: and electricity usage information has numbers and occupancy are ramping up Clinica Eugin which reports on behalf been obtained from purchase invoices.
This has contributed to of Spanish, Italian, Danish, Brazilian Vehicle fuel usage is based upon an 8% overall increase in GHG emissions and Colombian operations: purchase invoices.
Where NMC is not intensity per 1,000 dollars of revenue for ProVita, provider of long-term medical directly billed for the consumption of NMC as a whole.
care in the UAE: power and therefore does not have full Americare provider home health visibility the data, an estimation using NMC remains committed to continuous care: and average consumption from other similar improvement and ongoing reduction NMC Royal Hospital Abu Dhabi.
of GHG emissions when measured on an intensity basis.
We have continued our policy that any Our emissions data for 2016 shows new facilities acquired during the year that there has been an 18% decrease in Responsibility to under review are not included in reporting GHG intensity per 1,000 orders and a 14% for that year.
Therefore, we have not decrease on a per 1,000 dollar revenue NMC Employees included any of the acquisitions which basis for the distribution business.
NMC considers its employees an the Group has made in 2016.
All of these This improvement is largely due to the invaluable resource.
It is one of our facilities have commenced data implementation of training sessions biggest strengths of have an extremely collection and monitoring with effect on managing fuel consumption and loyal employees base, which NMC has from 1 October 2016. identifying inefficiencies, together been grateful for many years.
Our annual with the replacement of older vehicles employee turnover percentage remains OUR GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS with more fuel efficient versions.
A well-defined performance Our greenhouse gas reporting covers management system, transparent the 12 month period of 1 October 2015 to In the Healthcare division on a like for like compensation model and effective 30 September 2016.
This reporting period basis, there has also been a 2% decrease career paths helps NMC retain this loyal enables us to collate and review the data in tonnes CO e per 1,000 patients, and a employee base.
It is with great pride that 2 in a timely manner ahead of the annual 0.64% decrease in tonnes CO e per 1,000 many of our original staff and vendors are 2 report and accounts.
dollars of revenue when excluding the still with us today and that our healthcare new facilities.
However, there has been professionals are now treating the We have applied an operational control a 9% increase in GHG intensity on a per grandchildren of original patients.
approach in presenting our GHG 1,000 patient basis overall, when looking emissions, and have reported on all at all Healthcare entities, including newly material emission sources within scope 1 opened and acquired facilities reporting GHG EMISSIONS TONNES CO E 2 Healthcare excluding Healthcare For the 12 months to 30 September the new facilities all entities Distribution Total 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Scope 1 emissions 4,071 7,699 4,071 9,666 4,276 3,917 8,347 13,583 Scope 2 emissions 27,511 29,829 27,511 43,361 5,452 5,230 32,693 48,591 Total GHG emissions 31,582 37,528 31,582 53,027 9,728 9,147 43,310 62,174 GHG emissions intensity tonnes CO e 1,000 2 patient 11.5 11.3 11.5 12.5 GHG emissions intensity tonnes CO e 1,000 2 orders 25.6 20.97 GHG emissions intensity by revenue tonnes CO e 1,000 dollar 0.073 0.072 0.061 0.065 0.026 0.022 0.047 0.051 2 Scope 1 direct emissions from fuel combustion and industrial processes.
At these sites this takes the form of gas for heating, diesel and petrol for the fleet and diesel for generators.
Scope 2 indirect emissions from the generation of purchased electricity and cooling.
The GHG emissions reporting is in line with the GHG Protocol developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, and additional guidance issued by the UK Government.
The emissions have been calculated using carbon conversion factors published by the UK Government in October 2016.
The total Scope 2 emissions have been reported in accordance with the location based method which uses grid average emissions factors.
There are no energy certificates or supplier-specific information available in the UAE, therefore, the market based method is not applicable here.
Conversion factors applicable to the UAE for Scope 2 have been obtained from the publication IEA CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2012 edition.
A conversion factor for Sevoflurane was not available from the UK Government so an epa.
gov ghg reporting figure was used.
We have restated the 2015 emissions data to take account of updated 2016 conversion factors to allow for a like for like comparison.
In summary Healthcare scope 1 emissions for 2015 decreased by 97 tonnes CO e and Healthcare Scope 2 emissions decreased by 461 tonnes CO e. Distribution scope 1 emissions 2 2 increased by 2 tonnes CO e. 2 6.
During Q3-2015 and the 2016 period, a number of entities became operational.
These entities include: NMC Royal Hospital Khalifa City, Clinica Eugin, ProVita, Dr Sunny Healthcare Group and Americare.
The exclusion of these entities from our total emissions provides a comparable position to the prior year data as the average patient occupancy rates during the start-up phase is low.
28 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Strategic Report NMC EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT DIVERSITY, DISCRIMINATION AND GENDER PROGRAMS Our commitment to diversity and We take pride in having an organisational anti-discrimination policies are reflected ethos that is exceedingly supportive and in the profile of our employees.
encouraging of employee engagement programs.
Our employees social and NMC has an anti-discrimination policy emotional well-being is benefit from in place to ensure that there is no having activities and initiatives planned discrimination or harassment of any year round.
person employed or seeking employment on the basis of their race, colour, religion, THANK GOD ITS TUESDAY TGIT gender, age or nationality.
Our TGIT is a monthly initiative with an aim to provide a platform for our staff to In accordance with Spanish Law, Eugin mingle with each other and know their also works to stimulate the social and colleagues.
This is an informal meeting labour integration of disabled people where employees congregate and hold and supports Centros especiales fide casual conversations with one other.
The empleo, special work centres that TGITs also get incorporated with WHO employ disabled people by purchasing global health awareness days in order their products and services.
to provide our employees an opportunity to learn, reflect and act in a positive As at 31 December 2016, our Group has manner towards their health.
grown its employee base across all its business operations to over 11,000 HEALTH TIP OF THE DAY employees.
We employed individuals Our Health Tips of the Day is a daily from 81 different nationalities.
In addition, emailer that is sent out to all our our workforce is equally split between employees in the group.
These health female and male employees.
We believe tips range from home remedies to health that this widespread cultural and benefits of a myriad different topic.
NMC balanced gender mix is testament to believe preventive healthcare initiatives the effects of our discrimination policies are crucial for the longevity of our and the multi-cultural nature of the UAE, employees social and emotional health.
GENDER COMPARISON STUDY 31 December 2016 Gender Percentage Facilities Categories Total Male Female Male Female Board of Directors & Senior NMC Board of Directors 11 8 3 67% 33% Management Team Senior Management Team 6 5 1 83% 17% Grand Total 11,252 5,582 5,670 50% 50% Corporate Office Total Corporate Office 419 273 146 65% 35% Corporate Management 109 85 24 78% 22% Corporate Staff 310 188 122 61% 39% Reliance Infotech Total Reliance Infotech 78 69 9 88% 12% Reliance Management 9 8 1 89% 11% Reliance Staff 69 61 8 88% 12% Healthcare Total Healthcare 8,686 3,456 5,230 40% 60% Healthcare Management 155 107 48 69% 31% Doctors 1,030 619 411 60% 40% Staff Nurses 3,014 531 2,483 18% 82% Technicians & Pharmacists 1,119 454 665 41% 59% Healthcare Others 3,369 1,745 1,625 52% 48% Distribution Total Distribution 2,059 1,781 278 86% 14% Distribution Management 187 164 23 88% 12% Distribution Staff 1,872 1,617 255 86% 14% R&D Eugin 10 3 7 30% 70% Corporate Management includes six Senior Management Personnel, two of whom were Executive Directors also, but excludes Non-Executive Directors.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29
