SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Overview Our People page 46 sets a fantastic benchmark of what we Responsible SEGRO Without our employees, the success that can achieve as a business and gives an idea of we achieve would not be possible so we how we intend to develop in the future.
SEGROs core business involves being invest substantially in our people and in a landlord to our customers, but we are Our Stakeholders making working at SEGRO an enjoyable and much more than this.
We have employees, Our relationships with our customers, suppliers rewarding experience.
suppliers, communities, governmental and investors as well as our involvement with bodies and investors who have their own In 2016, we continued to embed our Purpose industry bodies enables us to make informed expectations about how we interact with and Values into the Companys culture and strategic decisions for the benefit of all them.
We also have a responsibility to to make them tangible through a number of our stakeholders.
protect the environment in which we Company-wide initiatives which have enabled 2016 saw an investment in new systems and operate, owning and developing buildings our Values to be integral to the way we work.
practices aimed to enhance our commitment to which use natural resources efficiently, both Our Community our stakeholders.
SEGRO continues to invest in the communities What to expect in 2017 in which we operate.
Our commitment in this Responsible SEGRO, introduced in 2016, We have the following objectives for 2017: provides a framework around which we area is based on collaboration and partnership We will engage with our teams around the and is fundamental to our business.
describe and report on our responsibilities results of our Employee Survey to create to all of our stakeholders.
We are proud of our contribution towards meaningful local action plans which are enhancing communities through the creation With responsibility embedded within our underpinned by our Purpose and Values.
of skills and employment schemes in 2016. strategic thinking, we prioritise taking time We will set up a Berkshire Community The successful outcomes from the London to listen to our people, communities and Fund to replicate the success of the London Community Fund are an excellent example of stakeholders and ensure that we exceed Community Fund.
our commitment in this area and can be seen in their expectations.
Having achieved our operational efficiency We believe that this collaborative targets for Carbon, Water and Waste, ahead Our Environment approach enables us to make informed of our 2020 deadline, we will be reviewing By focusing on materials, energy and waste, we decisions which are beneficial to all of our our SEGRO 2020 targets in 2017 to reflect have made significant progress on our 2020 stakeholders and to the environment.
the changing demands on our environment.
One of our core Values is to keep one eye We will fully consider the results of our annual An example of SEGROs level of commitment to on the horizon.
Real estate is a long-term survey, take on board the feedback received the environment can be seen in our Navigation investment and we need to ensure that and then implement improvements aimed Park scheme Londons first carbon neutral it can thrive in a fast-moving business at delivering a better product and service to industrial scheme which was launched in 2016. environment.
It is vital that we understand our customers The project which is explored further on our changing environment and adjust our business accordingly in order to make it futureproof: changing demographics, the Health and Safety impact of technology and the continuing Standards of health and safety are of critical importance to SEGRO.
Throughout 2016, we have rise of ecommerce are just a few factors continued our work to embed our Health and Safety policy into our company culture, managing which are currently affecting our business risks through tight controls, training and raising awareness.
and the businesses of our customers.
SEGRO has thorough health and safety management procedures in operation across the Group By investigating and understanding these allowing our excellent record in this area to be maintained.
As part of our monthly reporting, all trends, we aim to position our business for updates, incidents or health and safety related issues are reported to senior management and the success in the long term.
Board, with any serious incidents being fully investigated as soon as we are made aware of them.
Our Group Health and Safety policy can be accessed on our website www.
David Sleath Chief Executive For the second consecutive year, our Accident Frequency Rate for SEGRO employees was zero and there were no health and safety prosecutions, enforcement actions or fatalities.
For the fourth consecutive year, SEGRO was awarded a RoSPA Gold Award in 2016.
This award reflects our commitment to, and practical application of, exceptional health and safety procedures across all our Business operations.
Our focus in 2016 was to fully implement our recently introduced Construction Standard and launch a new online tool called Safety Matters.
More details on these initiatives are in our Responsible SEGRO Report www.
Strategic Report 41 Overview Governance Financial Statements Purpose & Values Partnerships Jobs & Skills Diversity Talent Charity Suppliers Materials Investors Energy Customers Waste Code of Ethics SEGRO seeks to maintain the highest Furthermore, as a business we recognise our All employees receive information on our Code ethical standards in our business activities.
of Ethics when starting work at SEGRO and responsibility to be aware of the potential risks Our Code of Ethics is aligned both to the laws are required to complete a training course of slavery and human trafficking within our and regulations that control our operations as part of their induction.
On an annual organisation and supply chain.
In order to and to our Purpose and Values.
The Code basis, employees are required to certify that ensure compliance with the Modern Slavery is a condition of each employees terms of they continue to understand and adhere to Act 2015, we have started to amend our employment and reflects the basic level of the Code.
existing policies and to create new policies.
acceptable behaviour to help ensure that We will publish a statement in the first half of Our policies are regularly reviewed to reflect our employees always act in the Companys 2017 to reflect our zero tolerance approach, in the requirements of the Company and the best interests.
concerns of our employees to ensure they The Code incorporates policies on bribery, remain relevant.
Any changes made to policies corruption and fraud, gifts and hospitality, are communicated across the Group.
insider trading, confidentiality, conflicts of Any breaches of the Code of Ethics are fully interest, relationships with our stakeholders, investigated and managed accordingly by political and charitable donations and raising the General Counsel or Group HR Director serious concerns.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 42 Corporate Social Responsibility Our People SEGRO employs 285 people across Europe who We have stringent policies in place with regard work together to serve our 1,200 customers.
to equal opportunities and human rights which Whilst our employee network is spread over assist us in achieving our strategic goals in 285 ten countries, our strong culture means that we this area.
are able to operate successfully as one cohesive, Every employee receives diversity training as employees serving collaborative and inclusive team.
part of the induction process, which highlights 1,200 customers Purpose and Values the importance we place on equal opportunities.
Our core beliefs about how we do business and Our Gender Diversity policy recognises the our expert people set us apart from our peers.
recommendations of the UK Davies Report Whilst our culture has evolved over our long on Women on Boards and agrees with the history, we have retained our entrepreneurial conclusion that greater efforts should be made 4% spirit and our pride in our customers and to improve the gender balance of corporate our teams.
SEGRO has a good record of promoting staff turnover in 2016 and appointing women to senior roles and Our Purpose We create the space that we offer flexible training and mentoring enables extraordinary things to happen programmes to ensure that all our employees is a differentiating statement that energises achieve their potential, taking account of their us as a team, whilst our Values guide our 6,42 2 diverse development needs.
In 2016, our Executive Directors and Leadership hours of training delivered Throughout 2016 we continued with the Team completed Unconscious Bias training as a journey we started in 2014 to bring our Purpose in 2016 group.
This led to an improved understanding and Values to life.
We have launched a number and awareness of this important subject among of initiatives to make the Values tangible to our the leaders of our business.
business, including delivering five corporate Gender diversity actions seetable below for details.
Talent Our approach to developing talent is quite The success of our programme is evident in the Female simple we want everyone to be able to Male Female Male improved employee survey results achieved in 10% 90% 26% 74% maximise their potential whilst with SEGRO.
2016 in which our employee engagement score reached 90 per cent.
Highlights from the survey SEGRO continued to invest in a robust training include 97 per cent of employees caring about programme in 2016.
Our Space to grow the future of SEGRO and 93 per cent being programme offers a broad range of online and proud to say they work for SEGRO.
off-line training courses in practical and softer Board Leadership Team skills, alongside dynamic learning opportunities Diversity in a wide number of languages.
Male We believe that being fair, open minded and Female 56% 44% free from bias helps us to attract and retain In 2016, 81 per cent of employees said they had the best people and ultimately leads to better relevant access to training and development.
Executive Directors 360 Say it like it is.
The Executive Directors led from the front by giving each other Workforce Feedback feedback and getting feedback from their direct reports through in-depth 360 feedback interviews.
Customer Relationship Stand side by side.
We invested in a new Customer Relationship Management Management system and customer engagement programme to harness our networks across SEGRO and enhance our customer relationships.
Liz Reilly Remuneration Stand side by side.
We launched a consultation programme amongst a cross section Alignment of employees to assess whether our all-employee Bonus Scheme was aligned to our Group HR Director Purpose and Values.
We made changes to the Scheme as a result to include a common Group measure for all employees Total Property Return.
Creation of our Futures Keeping one eye on the horizon If the door is closed... We brought together a Group Customers group of employees to assess the potential disruptors and opportunities in our sector.
Futures Forum The group reported their findings to the Board.
We also hosted a Customers Futures Forum with a number of our customers to share our research and gain insight into some of the trends impacting their businesses.
Reduction in Reporting Make the boat go faster.
We challenged ourselves to consider whether we could improve the efficiency of our reporting.
The Chief Executive wrote to all employees to ask them for their thoughts and feedback and as a result we were able to remove a number of reports and reduced the frequency of others.
Strategic Report 43 Overview Governance Financial Statements Our Community Charity In addition, SEGRO employees cumulatively donated 315 days of their time to a charity OVER SEGRO actively encourages all employees to in 2016. contribute towards charitable causes through the donation of time and skills.
SEGRO also offers to match funds that 3,200 PEOPLE employees raise for charity, supporting a variety Our efforts for charity focus on five key areas of causes that are close to their hearts.
which we aim to enhance annually: will ultimately be employed in National Charity Funding LandAid LandAid the new space we constructed LandAid is the property industry charity, Local Community Funding in 2016 aiming to end youth homelessness in the UK.
Employee volunteering SEGRO employees participated in a number of internal events for LandAid including a football Employee fundraising tournament and sailing and golf days.
880,420 Corporate donations and sponsorship SEGRO became the first company to reach Throughout 2016, our Group Charity the fundraising target for LandAids Sponsor donated to charity in 2016 Committee continued to deliver SEGROs a home initiative which involves creating community strategy and allocate funds accommodation for young people leaving accordingly to a variety of projects.
We primarily care, through refurbishment of derelict space.
focus on reducing homelessness and raising Our contribution will be invested in a property in employability of young people, particularly Barking in 2017.
315 within the areas in which we operate.
We were delighted to have raised 76,251 for employee days donated to In 2016, SEGRO donated the equivalent LandAid in 2016 and are committed to continue of 880,420.
This was in the form of direct charity in 2016 to support the charity into the future with donations 240,860, employee volunteering assistance from our Chief Operating Officer and 119,600 and assistance in kind 519,960. two SEGRO Ambassadors.
1ST The first company to reach the fundraising target for LandAids Sponsor a home scheme Neil Impiazzi Partnerships Development Manager Day of Giving SEGRO provides each employee with an annual day during which they can contribute their time towards a charity of their choice.
In June 2016, SEGRO held its first Company-wide Day of Giving to support community initiatives and local charities in areas where we operate.
Throughout Europe, 201 SEGRO employees worked with ten local charities and community organisations across a range of activities in order to give something back to the community.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Our Community continued Partnerships Jobs and Skills London Community Fund SEGRO continued to work closely with local Through our development programme and Since its launch in 2015, SEGRO has communities and stakeholders in areas where in partnership with our customers, SEGRO is contributed over 150,000 to the London we operate throughout 2016 and we are committed to raising education, training and Community Fund which is dedicated to widely recognised as a company with which employment levels in our local communities.
supporting grass-roots community groups and communities want to work.
We believe active The space we create provides modern charities in the London boroughs in which engagement and an understanding of the local premises in which companies of all sizes can we operate.
The fund helps provide training areas help deliver better long term regeneration operate.
These bring with them direct and and employment opportunities to the local outcomes for our communities.
related employment opportunities, allowing community, focusing on providing education Partnerships in London communities to benefit from wider regeneration.
to enhance employability for vulnerable, 37 per cent of our portfolio is in Greater London, young, homeless people.
We are committed to going above and which makes our partnerships in the city very beyond being simply a local landlord and In 2016, we were able to see the widespread important.
As our presence in Greater London have invested in a range of initiatives involving success of the 2015 scheme in which 13 has continued to rise in recent years, we have our contractors and occupiers to offer local community projects were awarded a grant taken great pride in establishing relationships residents opportunities to develop their skills of up to 5,000 each.
In total, 594 people within many London boroughs and councils and secure employment opportunities both in benefitted directly from the projects including and have an established network of community the construction phase of developments and 89 project participants securing employment, contacts.
Our initiatives in collaboration and with our customers.
SEGRO encourages and 74 participants securing places on education partnership were integral to being chosen by participates in school visits, work experience, preor further training courses and at least nine the Mayor of London as the preferred industrial employment courses and guaranteed interview participants securing apprenticeships.
development partner for the 35 hectare East programmes for local people.
Examples of our Plus portfolio in October 2015, with construction In 2016 we increased the number of community achievements in this area include: of the first development SEGRO Park Rainham projects we were able to support to 18. already underway.
Slough Aspire has now welcomed over 8,400 The success of the London Community visitors and supported the career progression Fund has inspired us to set up a Berkshire of 1,825 business professionals since opening.
Community Fund which will be active in 2017.
In collaboration with the London Borough of Brent, we helped over 40 residents of the local community secure employment at Origin Business Park.
Community regeneration Community Supply funding chain Training Job & skills opportunities SEGROs contribution of 60,000 in 2016 2016 saw the planning of the Supply Chain to the London Community Fund has Initiative to promote construction tender helped projects to assist people in gaining opportunities to local SMEs.
As part of this access to equipment and advice in order 2016 saw continued success for Slough In 2015, SEGRO launched its partnership programme, SEGRO will run a meet the for them to begin their journey back into Aspire and reflects our continued emphasis to with the London Borough of Brent to help buyer event and provide training to help the working world.
The outcomes from regenerate the area from which our heritage vulnerable residents gain access to new job small businesses compete for the tender the 2015 programme, seen in 2016, are stems.
Slough Aspire has: opportunities created at Origin Business Park.
The following are the highlighted below.
In 2016, over 40 members of the community types ofsupply chain opportunities we are secured employment with some of our hoping to provide in our local communities: customers, including: 594 people have directly benefitted from Welcomed over 8,400 visitors since Ocado Tiling the funding opening in 2013 Mash Purveyors Decorating 89 project participants Won Entrepreneur of the Year at the Wasabi Scaffolding secured employment Slough Business Awards 2015 Mechanical and engineering works 74 participants continued into education Helped 2,935 unemployed residents to or further training courses improve their employment prospects Roofing and cladding 9 participants secured apprenticeships Supported the career progression of Structural steelwork 1,825 business professionals Aided in the creation of 38 new start-up companies Strategic Report 45 Overview Governance Financial Statements Our Environment SEGRO is more than just a landlord.
As an Each year we make significant investments owner-manager and developer of over 6 million into innovative technologies and new ways of sq m of buildings across Europe, we have a working to reduce our energy use and minimise 250,000 sq m responsibility to deliver buildings which not only our environmental footprint.
In 2016, our efforts meet our customers needs but are created were recognised in the Carbon Disclosure of space environmentally in harmony with their local environment and Project report where we were awarded a sustainable for the long term.
Our challenge score of A-, placing SEGRO as a leader in certified in 2016 is to ensure that as we grow, we reduce our carbon management.
use of energy and natural resources while Not only is it essential to work on reducing our also providing a vibrant and stimulating environmental impacts but it is also important working environment.
that we ensure that we report on our progress 61% Our SEGRO 2020 strategy was developed openly and transparently.
In 2016 we were to position SEGRO as a leader in developing again awarded Gold by EPRA and a Green reduction in energy intensity sustainable buildings and business practices Star from Global Real Estate Sustainability achieved in 2016 within our sector.
It focuses on three aspects Benchmark GRESB in recognition of our that we have identified as being most material transparent reporting.
We worked hard in 2016 to our business: sustainable buildings, resource to improve our data collation methodology efficiencies and renewable energy.
A summary further across the Group and this is reflected of our performance to date is in the table below.
in our Responsible SEGRO report, available at 9.2MW www.
of onsite renewable energy capacity SEGRO 2020 Operational targets Improving operational efficiency against our baseline of 2012 Improvement target by 2020 Progress as of 31 December 2016 EPRA GOLD Reduce energy intensity for SEGRO responsible space by 40 per cent 62% Reduce water intensity for SEGRO responsible space by 20 per cent 26% AWARD Reuse or recycling 80 per cent of construction demolition waste 98% Reuse or recycling 60 per cent of excavation waste 84% achieved for 4th SEGRO 2020 Asset Design Improving the design standards of our new buildings consecutive year and refurbishments Improvement target by 2020 Progress as of 31 December 2016 Install water efficient technology in all new buildings 64% met target and qualifying major refurbishments 100 per cent of qualifying buildings to be at least 40 per cent 77% more efficient than our 2009 baseline 100 per cent of qualifying new developments by SEGRO over 91% 2 10,000 m to be BREEAM certified Very Good or equivalent 100 per cent of new buildings to be EPC B rated or better 95% 100 per cent of qualifying refurbishments to be EPC C rated or better 86% SEGRO 2020 Renewables Gareth Osborn Improvement target by 2020 Progress as of 31 December 2016 Business Increase renewable energy generating capacity across the Group 12% increase on previousyear Unit Director, Thames Valley Target met On target to meet SEGRO 2020 objectives and National Logistics SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Our Environment continued GHG Reporting Low Carbon Buildings: GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS DATA IN Navigation Park TONNES CO2e The Navigation Park development, which has Emissions from: 2016 2015 achieved a BREEAM rating of Excellent, is Scope 1 emissions Londons first carbon neutral industrial scheme.
combustion of fuels 7,227 5,964 This means the building is expected to create as Scope 2 emissions purchased much clean energy as it uses.
energy location based 12,959 21,438 Scope 2 emissions purchased The scheme harnesses energy efficient initiatives energy market based 13,049 19,096 including LED lighting controlled by motion Total CO2e footprint using and light sensors and high U-Value building location based 20,186 27,403 fabric, outperforming building regulations by Chosen intensity approximately 33 per cent.
Measurement Emissions from like-for-like The most significant component in the schemes carbon neutral status has been achieved estate normalised to tonnes 2 through the installation of 428 kWp of photovoltaic panels spread across the three buildings CO e m of responsible space 0.008 0.011 2 supplying clean energy to 16,286 sq m of industrial space.
This involved industry-leading E lectricity emissions are calculated using location based methods.
innovation to ensure the maximum possible size system could be installed, going materially Emissions calculations are taken from GRI guidance used here beyond minimum requirements.
This in turn guarantees considerable operational cost savings for for illustration purposes only.
Market based Electricity emissions are included here for the occupier as well as a significantly reduced carbon footprint for the development.
SEGROs chosen intensity measure is a like-for-like comparison The system will generate 422,465 kWh of energy per year, with annual CO savings being in the 2 for sites in the portfolio in both 2015 and 2016.
This comparison uses EPRA guidance on best practice for real estate companies.
region of 224 tonnes per year.
S elected information within the scope of KPMG limited assurance.
Mandatory Greenhouse Gas GHG the IEA Reliable Disclosure Systems residual KPMG Limited Assurance Emissions Statement emission factors have been applied.
We engaged KPMG LLP to undertake an This section has been prepared in accordance independent limited assurance engagement, We disclose data for both our like-for-like and with our regulatory obligation to report using the assurance standards ISAE 3000 and absolute portfolios in this report and a detailed greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to Section ISAE 3410 over Selected Information included description of our methodology and a full 7 of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report in this Annual Report.
The Selected Information disclosure of emissions factors used can be and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
As well within the scope of this assurance is highlighted found at www.
as fulfilling these mandatory greenhouse gas with the symbol in the table of emissions, above.
KPMGs full statement is available on our reporting requirements, SEGRO is committed As in previous years, Q4 consumption data to EPRA Best Practice Recommendations for website at www.
com csr reports and is not available at the time of reporting due KPMG has issued an unqualified opinion on the Sustainability reporting, for which we have won to billing cycles and is therefore estimated.
a Gold award four years running.
Data gaps have been filled using the EPRA day rate estimation technique.
In 2016, SEGRO has The table above provides information on In order to reach its opinion, KPMG performed sought to increase the accuracy of the EPRA day SEGROs greenhouse gas emissions for 2016, a range of procedures which included interviews rate estimation methodology for Q4 natural gas in which we are pleased to report a 26 per cent with management, examination of reporting consumption by building in seasonal sensitivity.
reduction in like-for-like Scope 1 and 2 emissions systems and data testing.
A summary of the The day rate for 2016 Scope 1 emissions from 2015.
The reduction is driven in Scope 2 work KPMG performed is included within its reflects actual natural consumption during location-based emissions, which is largely due assurance opinion.
previous winter months and has resulted in a to the increasingly accurate allocation of meters higher, but more representative, value than in The level of assurance provided for a limited and greater clarity in billed data across our previous years.
assurance engagement is substantially lower portfolio.
Further improvements have also been than a reasonable assurance engagement.
Nonmade by the increased occupation of assets, SEGROs chosen GHG intensity metric is financial performance information, greenhouse predominantly in Europe, equating to a further calculated using the Scope 1 and 2 emissions gas quantification in particular, is subject to more move of emissions from Scope 2 to Scope 3. within a like for like sub-set of SEGROs overall inherent limitations than financial information.
The like-for-like portfolio is defined as We report our data using an operational control It is important to read the Selected Information currently owned sites which have both been approach to define our organisational boundary, in the context of KPMGs full limited assurance in the portfolio for 2015 and 2016 and have as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
The market statement and the reporting criteria as set out remained either fully occupied or fully vacant for based methodology has been applied to in the SEGRO reporting guidelines available at both years.
calculate the Scope 2 emissions, however www.
supplier-specific emission factors have been collected for UK only.
For the non-UK portfolio, Strategic Report 47 Overview Governance Financial Statements Our Stakeholders SEGROs goal is to be the best owner-manager We spend over 400 million per annum working with approximately 2,400 suppliers and developer of industrial property in Europe.
across the Group, ranging from small local Our risk appetite, found on page 54, sets out 1, 200 businesses to large multinational companies.
the importance of our stakeholders and our reputation with them.
We remain dedicated to only doing business customers with suppliers that have been thoroughly SEGRO people also work within key industry checked and approved as legitimate, competent, bodies to ensure that high standards are upheld safe and appropriately insured.
throughout the real estate industry, particularly within the industrial sector.
In 2016 we implemented a new online Supplier 79% Relationship Management system, which makes SEGRO has been a member of the British it easier and faster for suppliers to become Property Federation BPF since the 1970s.
and remain approved by SEGRO.
The system occupier satisfaction in our In 2016 our Chief Executive, David Sleath, has also enabled us to greatly improve rates was elected President of the BPF, and has 2016 survey of compliance with our procurement policy.
continued to pursue the BPFs vision of a vibrant With further investment in purchase-to-pay and successful real estate industry, working in systems in 2016, we have encouraged more partnership with government.
suppliers to adopt electronic forms of invoicing, OVER Customers reducing paper and enabling us to process and In order to be the partner of choice, we focus pay invoices more quickly.
on maintaining strong and enduring customer Investors 400M relationships through excellent customer Our shareholder register comprises investors of service and an understanding of our customers many sizes, from large institutions to individual supplier spend per annum operational and strategic challenges.
To measure our success, SEGRO encourages We aim to ensure that all shareholders are customers to participate in an independent regularly well informed about our activities customer satisfaction survey.
In the 2016 and our performance, as well as being 148 annual survey, we achieved an overall occupier given opportunities to ask questions and satisfaction score of 79 per cent, up from provide feedback.
In addition, 82 per cent representatives from We have a dedicated Investor Relations team believed we are responsive to their needs, and that works with our Company Secretary to institutional shareholders met 83 per cent rated us as easy or very easy to ensure that we communicate regularly with our by senior management in 2016 work with.
We also improved satisfaction rates investors through a structured and extensive on communication and property management investor engagement programme.
which are above, or level with, our previous The programme includes an Annual General record results.
Meeting, management meetings with The Customer Relationship Management institutional investors, attendance at investor conferences, presentations to investment banks, CRM initiative, led by the Chief Operating Officer, is live within the business.
In 2016, we site visits, as well as more informal events.
These events provide our investors with the launched a new CRM system which provides a opportunity to meet SEGRO managers from dynamic platform enabling our people to share across the organisation and achieve a greater information about customer needs and concerns understanding about how the Company is across the business.
performing and what the future holds for the Supply Chain business.
During 2016, the Executive Directors SEGRO is committed to ensuring a secure and and the Investor Relations team met with safe supply chain in all parts of the business.
Andy Gulliford Chief Operating Officer Key Account Management In 2016, we assigned specific managers across the business to our top 30 customers to oversee and strengthen their relationship with SEGRO with the objective to add more value to our customers businesses.
The process went live, alongside the launch of our new Customer Relationship Management system, and included internal training to ensure the roll-out was effective for long term success.
We have already seen direct benefits from aligning our internal knowledge for the benefit of our customers and we intend to widen this process further across our customer base in the future.
