SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IS EMBEDDED IN THE MANAGEMENT OF OUR BUSINESS.
WE CONTINUE TO DEVELOP OUR STRATEGY AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION ACROSS ALL ASPECTS OF OUR OPERATIONS.
Our strategic focus continues to be the We have also continued to engage and re-use and careful management of existing collaborate with neighbouring owners and buildings.
We pride ourselves on our ability other stakeholders to further sustainability to extend the economic useful lives of our objectives in Londons West End.
We are buildings through changes of use and an active member of both, the Better reconfiguration, within the constraints of Building Partnership and the Wild West legislation, so that they continue to meet End biodiversity collaboration.
Through the the needs of modern occupiers.
This latter we are gaining momentum with the emphasis on restoration and repair forms implementation of biodiversity features the core of our sustainability strategy and throughout the portfolio.
We are also an is measured through an increased number associate member of the New West End of schemes on course to achieve BREEAM Company which is working on the Air certification.
Quality 2020 initiative - a partnership of London companies concerned about In an urban location, which is intensively congestion and resulting air pollution used by huge numbers of visitors and a issues in the West End.
large working population and residential community, social issues and challenges In the year ahead we will work together are bound to arise.
We therefore focus on with stakeholders to identify and community related activities which help to implement practical measures that can support organisations that tackle these contribute to reducing traffic movements, problems.
We are long-term, socially through coordinated delivery and responsible neighbours and investors in servicing, and consequently reduce air our area and are integrated into our pollution.
We measure our continued This is a condensed version of our involvement in line with the London Sustainability Report and Benchmarking Group methodology.
Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact.
The environmental We remain committed in our support of information, including biodiversity, is set the United Nations Global Compact out on pages 158 to 165.
The full report is UNGC and its ten principles in the areas available on our website.
of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
We are implementing programmes internally and across our supply chain with emphasis on engaging with our principal suppliers and how they operate in the management of our portfolio.
We are encouraging the payment of the London living wage and are progressing the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 throughout our supply chain as objectives for 2017.
BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method 72 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED MANAGEMENT OF SUSTAINABILITY With the growth of our business and the increasing importance We aim to progress towards reporting in line with the Global that we are placing on sustainability, we have formed a Reporting Initiative GRI G4 requirements and formalise a Sustainability Committee.
Chaired by the Chief Executive, it materiality assessment from an external and internal comprises members of the management team and the Company perspective: Secretary.
It meets quarterly to define objectives, agree External review a review of external influences, views of strategies and review progress.
We have a robust Sustainability investors, benchmarking indices, activities of our peers and Policy which is reviewed annually by the Board and is available other companies to provide the basis for identifying the issues on our website.
This is supported by a materiality framework that are material to the business now and in the future.
Internal review the findings from the above were reviewed MATERIALITY internally by the Sustainability Committee and then we held an internal workshop to establish the relative importance of the We have based our sustainability strategies and goals on the issues to our business, balanced with the importance to following core factors: stakeholders.
Community: engaging with community groups and charities to Below is the result of our first assessment which shows a ensure we are aligned in our community.
materiality matrix setting out the most significant issues.
These Stakeholders: engaging with our tenants, investors and principal were identified as: community, central London air pollution, advisors ensures that we are aware of their expectations and can living wage, health and safety, infrastructure, greenhouse gas respond accordingly.
In particular, we work with tenants to emissions, human rights, waste, material use and biodiversity.
identify ways in which they can use our buildings more efficiently Whilst we will continue to consider the core factors as part of and operate in a more sustainable manner.
our sustainability strategy, we will prioritise these top ten issues Environment: the re-use and careful management of existing and aim to address them in the year ahead.
In addition, reducing the running costs of the buildings and improving their operational efficiencies is essential to attract tenants, as well as meet future HIGH regulatory requirements.
Air Pollution Community Suppliers: working closely with our suppliers enables us to control our potentially most significant indirect impacts and facilitate Infastructure better standards of service.
GHG Living Health Employees: investing in the welfare and development of our wage and employees ensures high standards of performance and safety continuing low turnover of staff.
Material Human Biodiversity use rights Waste EXTERNAL LOW HIGH STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 73 INTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED COMMUNITY 6.2% We ensure our activities and engagement are aligned with the community 5.3% in which our portfolio is located and in the aspects that support the West What we contribute End both as a community and visitor destination.
40.0% Cash We have continued our membership of the London Benchmarking Group Staff time LBG.
Our LBG contribution is measured in accordance with their In kind contributions 32.8% framework and equated to 723,000.
The breakdown of the elements that Pro bono make up this figure are set out opposite.
Management costs Our Section 106 contributions an agreement to make a payment to a local 15.7% authority in respect of planning obligations were 166,000 giving an overall total of community investment of 889,000.
7.1% How we contribute Our collaborations provided community leverage of 73,000 to 33.4% Charitable gifts stakeholders.
Community investment Commercial initiatives in the community 59.5% LBG 13.3% What we support 723,000 31.9% Education Health Economic development s106 Environment 166,000 1.3% 35.7% Arts culture 5.9% 1.3% Social welfare 10.6% Other OUR VILLAGE CHARITY PARTNERS ARE: CHARITY PARTNERS Covent Garden This year we have continued our relationship with charity partners in our The Connection at St , Covent Garden Community villages.
We work with the nominated charity to promote their aims and Association, The Seven Dials Trust, Donmar Warehouse, the ENOs community choir and Central St Martins.
activities to a wide audience, through events and media activities.
We work with other charitable and not-for-profit organisations that we support, as a Chinatown Group, which reach across a number of our villages.
These include: The London Chinese Community Centre, London Chinatown Chinese Association, Chinese Information and Advice Centre and China Exchange.
LandAid London Law Centre Carnaby Sir Simon Milton Foundation including sponsorship of Westminster City Trekstock, the London College of Fashion, Deal Real Legacy, Stage One, Council tea dance The Samaritans and Pride in London.
Stage One Soho The Sustainable Restaurant Association Food Made Good The House of St Barnabas, The Soho Society, Soho Create, Museum of Soho, Westminster Kingsway College Soho Parish Primary School and West End Community Trust.
Westminster Tree Trust Zoological Society of London University of the Arts Westway Trust 74 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED STAKEHOLDERS This year we engaged with the New West End Company, a business Local Government improvement district, and their Air Quality 2020 project.
Landowners and We work together with Westminster City Council and Camden Council on other stakeholders are working together to identify ways to improve the public realm projects in order to improve the areas surrounding our flow of vehicles, reduce congestion and improve air quality in the West End.
During the reporting period, we commissioned a pilot study to identify Tenant engagement potential delivery and servicing consolidation schemes that could be We continue to provide subsidised membership of the Sustainable considered by retailers, restaurants and businesses in Seven Dials.
Four Restaurant Association and this is included in the Heads of Terms for new potential measures were identified: supplier consolidation, re-timing of restaurant tenants.
Eleven tenants have signed up this year.
deliveries, mandating the use of a single approved courier and discouraging An online Building Guide for commercial tenants is being developed and personal deliveries.
The results of the pilot study will be fed back to should be completed shortly.
The Guide will cover all management issues participating businesses and the study will be extended to all the relevant to the tenants, such as sustainability advice including fit-out, restaurants in Seven Dials.
The ultimate goal is that through sharing delivery emergency response, fire protection and recycling facilities within the and waste vans, vehicle movements will be reduced, improving traffic flow portfolio.
and consequent emissions, to the benefit of occupiers, residents and visitors to the area.
We have over 800 commercial tenants.
We aim for each tenant to have direct contact with at least one director and or member of the property We have continued our membership of the Better Building Partnership, a team and, in addition, full time estate managers are available to deal with collaboration of the UKs largest commercial property owners working day-to-day concerns.
As in 2015, we conducted a formal customer together to improve the sustainability of their commercial portfolios.
satisfaction survey of our tenants in Carnaby and Seven Dials.
The feedback Through this we have the opportunity to engage with peer group companies for Carnaby was largely positive and an improvement on last year but there to identify best practice opportunities appropriate to our operations and was a slight drop in performance at Seven Dials which is being addressed.
to benchmark the performance of a selection of our buildings.
The exercise will be repeated in the forthcoming year in Carnaby and Seven Suppliers Dials.
With our outsourcing model, we are concentrating our efforts on Results of customer satisfaction survey: transparency within our supply chain in the following areas.
In accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015, we have published a PROPERTY NAME AVERAGE RATING % SATISFIED statement on our website detailing how we are tackling slavery and human Carnaby - Residential 3.94 81% trafficking in our supply chain.
We have written to all our first tier suppliers to raise awareness of the legislation, telling them of our plans which include Carnaby - Office 4.10 90% carrying out a due diligence exercise throughout our business to establish the areas of risk, and reviewing all relevant contracts and requesting that our Carnaby - Retail 3.97 83% suppliers also contact their suppliers to raise awareness of the legislation.
3.94 75% Carnaby - Restaurant We have other policies in place which address human rights, whistleblowing and the ethical conduct of our business, all of which are included within our Response rate: 35% Sustainability Policy.
Our policy is provided annually to each member of our Overall average: 82% 2015: 71% supply chain to encourage them to adopt and enforce similar policies in their own business.
PROPERTY NAME AVERAGE RATING % SATISFIED An objective last year was to address the implementation of the London Seven Dials - Residential 3.53 62% living wage throughout our supply chain.
We are making good progress with our managing agents reviewing facilities contracts for our portfolio to Seven Dials - Office 3.44 67% ensure, as a minimum, that the pay scales meet the national living wage and, Seven Dials - Retail 3.46 69% where possible, meet the London living wage.
We recognise that for refurbishment projects, enforcing the requirement is proving more Seven Dials - Restaurant 2.75 50% challenging but our project management teams are aware of the requirement and are disseminating it to contractors and subcontractors.
Response rate: 29% Overall average: 62% 2015: 77% STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 75 SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED EMPLOYEES We recognise the importance of the welfare and professional We believe that training and development of our staff is essential development of our employees, as well as ensuring an inclusive and, this year, each employee underwent an average of 12 hours culture throughout our activities.
All staff also underwent a personal development review.
Flexible working is available and 11% of employees currently work We employ 27 staff including executive directors.
to be five women in senior executive positions 50% of executive staff excluding directors and three female non-executive directors.
This year we organised a training session for all staff, conducted by Our commitment to promoting gender equality is reflected in our an external law firm, which covered bribery, giving and receiving of gifts membership of Real Estate Balance, whose objective is to work and whistleblowing.
There have been no instances of non-compliance with both men and women in the real estate industry and with with our Anti-Bribery Policy during the financial year.
corporate leaders to achieve a greater gender balance at board and executive management level across the real estate sector by supporting, in a practical way, the development of an enduring female talent pipeline.
We have also committed to the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark.
2014 2015 2016 Percentage of female staff overall 52% 56% 60% Percentage of female staff in senior positions 50% 50% 50% Percentage of female board members 30% 30% 30% Average training hours per employee 30 19 12 Number of staff receiving professional development review 100% 100% 100% Average length of service 12 12 12 Staff turnover 0 0 1 Absenteeism average per employee 1.4 days 2 days 2 days Number of staff with flexible working 3 3 3 Health and Safety The Board has overall responsibility for health and safety.
There were two reportable health and safety incidents in the managed portfolio.
The Accident Frequency Rate for Shaftesbury In our refurbishment projects, responsibility for health and safety employees was zero 2015 zero and there were no health and is identified within all pre-tender documentation and is monitored safety prosecutions, enforcement actions or fatalities in 2016. by site and project managers.
Managing agents oversee day-to-day health and safety matters throughout the portfolio.
2014 2015 2016 Number of reportable injuries 0 0 2 Work related fatalities 0 0 0 Number of Enforcement Agency prosecutions or fines 0 0 0 Number of prohibition notices 0 0 0 Employee accidents and incidents 0 0 0 Number of employee days off work from injury 0 0 0 76 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW NOVEMBER S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 TURNING 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 ON THE LIGHTS Music playing, the lights being turned on, discounts offered in shops and restaurants, and the festival atmosphere, indicates that Christmas has officially started in Carnaby and Seven Dials.
77 78 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS 80 GOVERNANCE AT A GLANCE 82 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 84 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT 87 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 90 REMUNERATION REPORT 94 SUMMARY OF REMUNERATION POLICY 96 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT 98 DIRECTORS REPORT 110 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES 112 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 113 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 79
