Strategic report Corporate social responsibility The longterm business success of the Our objective is to recruit, train and retain Our investors and investments SVG Capital Group requires effective high calibre employees, and to foster a Although we were a major investor in management of both financial and non work environment that helps them fulfil private equity funds, regulations and financial performance.
To do this we aim to: commercial realities limit the degree to for the implementation of the UK Corporate which we could have an active influence provide a supportive work environment Social Responsibility CSR policy rests with on those funds.
We aimed to develop and corporate culture.
open, longterm relationships with the provide appropriate training private equity managers with whom Employees, social, community and and development.
We engaged with general human rights issues partners to identify where nonfinancial address, where possible, employees The Group employed 20 people based in issues may have had an impact on our interests regarding environmental, social London broken down by gender as follows: reputation and on that of our shareholders.
1 Number Male Female We also engaged with relevant industry Greenhouse gas emissions associations and participated in other Group Employees 20 14 6 initiatives to help raise awareness and The Group has 20 employees and operates SVG Capital plc understanding of these issues, both within from a leased office space.
As a financial Directors 6 4 2 and outside the sector.
services company, it generates limited 1 Senior Managers 6 5 1 greenhouse gas emissions.
Given the Shareholders 1 takeover offer received by the Company Excludes Lynn Fordham who is included as a Director of SVG Capital plc Our objective is to ensure that our and the subsequent change of investment operations address shareholders policies objective and policy and sale of its As a financial services firm, the relating to environmental, social and assets, it has been impractical to compile environmental and social impact of our governance issues.
To do this we aim to: information on emissions.
However, given activities is low.
However, we are looking the size of the Company and nature of its maintain a high standard of at ways to reduce our environmental business, the Company is comfortable that corporate governance.
impact and to support local communities.
no material emissions have been omitted.
We recognise the mutual benefits that can respond to shareholders environmental, arise from doing this in a consistent way.
social and governance concerns as they relate to our own operations.
give full consideration to shareholders concerns as they relate to our investment activities.
10 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 Strategic report Funds in which we invested Charitable giving Outward Bound Trust Our objective has been to develop strong The Group promotes charitable giving by The Outward Bound Trust is an educational relationships, balancing the legitimate direct donations to charities, in addition charity that uses the outdoors to help needs of the general partners of the funds to supporting staff with time off for develop young people from all walks of in which we invested with our interests volunteering and a matched charitable life.
It runs adventurous and challenging and the expectations of our shareholders.
During the year, the outdoor learning programmes that equip We aimed to do this by: Company agreed to continue to support young people with valuable skills for the School for Social Entrepreneurs and the education, work and life and help them ensuring the highest levels of integrity in Outward Bound Trust which both focus become more confident, more effective our relationships with general partners, on education and creation of opportunity.
and more capable at school, college and in including appropriate transparency on A total of 237,400 was committed to our the workplace.
chosen charities in the period.
For more information: developing strong and open working www.
uk School for Social Entrepreneurs relationships with general partners, so that we can maintain trust The School for Social Entrepreneurs SSE Engagement with the sector without unnecessary restrictions and exists to provide training and opportunities Our objective has been to engage in unrealistic requests.
to enable people to use their creative and debates on the role and impact of private entrepreneurial abilities more fully for equity.
We aimed to do this by: undertaking early and constructive social benefit.
SSE also wants to recruit engagement on environmental, social more innovative and capable people working with relevant sector associations.
and governance issues of legitimate into voluntary and other organisations.
participation in other relevant initiatives.
Prior to SSE runs practical learning programmes investment, we evaluate how the general aimed at helping develop the individual engaging in discussions partners assess such issues as part of their entrepreneur and their organisation with stakeholders.
due diligence on underlying companies simultaneously.
SSEs approach, and belief, By order of the Board and how they report on such issues.
is that social change is peoplepowered, and that the most valuable assets and resources we have are human ones.
Lynn Fordham For more information: www.
uk Chief Executive 2 February 2017 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 11
