Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Being responsible and sustainable is important flood and storm risk, connectivity and circulation, and planning requirements.
In addition, we commission an for our long-term financial success.
Our approach environmental survey that includes the sites previous uses, helps ensure our properties are suited to current so we can assess the risk of possible site contamination and and future tenants needs and continue to meet any past remediation.
For forward funded developments, evolving legislative requirements.
This provides we also consider the specification, how it will be built and our properties with defensive qualities, makes the inclusion of environmental elements such as rainwater them attractive to the market and therefore harvesting and renewable power.
underpins the potential for longer-term income.
For all potential asset purchases, we analyse the data we obtain and record it in a Green Review template.
The review may lead As a responsible owner, we want our properties to minimise to further enquiries of the vendor, surveying and legal teams, their impact on the local and wider environment.
We therefore or could identify opportunities for our initial business plan for consider the environmental performance of assets before the asset.
We also provide key sustainability data to the Board, we acquire them and encourage a sustainable approach to when seeking approval to proceed with a purchase.
new developments and to maintaining and upgrading existing buildings.
Our tenants are responsible for an assets environmental performance in use, such as its greenhouse gas emissions An Energy Performance Certificate EPC is a key measure of an or water consumption.
We do not purchase any utilities and assets energy efficiency.
An EPC is required by law whenever we cannot use the lease terms to influence how the tenant a building is bought, sold or rented, and grades the property operates.
As a result, we do not submit performance data from A most efficient to G least efficient.
Under the Minimum to benchmarking indices such as the Global Real Estate Energy Efficiency Standards, it will be unlawful from 1 April 2018 Sustainability Benchmark.
However, many of our tenants have for landlords to grant a new lease on an asset with an EPC rating corporate responsibility targets and we therefore encourage below E. By gross internal area our portfolio is rated: A 21%, and help them to adopt sustainable business practices.
None of our properties are rated F or G. All of our assets are let to single tenants.
We look to develop The Building Research Establishment Environmental strong relationships with them, so we can work together Assessment Methodology BREEAM is a voluntary sustainability to understand their property requirements and provide measure.
It has six ratings, ranging from Unclassified to environmentally efficient Big Boxes which suit their needs.
We expect a minimum of a Very Good rating for business plan for each asset therefore identifies opportunities our pre-let forward-funded developments, which represents to enhance its environmental attributes.
Eight of our properties advanced good practice and puts the buildings in the top harvest rainwater and five have either solar or wind generated quartile of new builds.
By working with our tenants, we expect to increase this number.
Other initiatives include enabling rail connectivity, The EPC rating is a key part of our review of potential asset installing energy efficient lighting and insulation, and plant purchases.
We also look at material environmental risks, such as replacement.
In addition, we support tenants who want to make EPC rating of portfolio 3% 21% 18% 24% 32% A B C D E F G 52 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 alterations to assets to support their employees, such as adding EPCs on all assets BREEAM Very Good bus stops or staff shops.
completed: 100% of certification on assets rated 4,543,151 sq ft of Our assets provide important benefits to their local developments communities.
They help our tenants to create jobs, often in areas where traditional industries have declined, boosting the local economy.
They also support economic activity more A-E broadly, by underpinning our tenants efficient operation and helping them succeed.
As an externally managed business, we do not have any employees or office space.
The Board is made up of five NonSolar PVC installed Executive Directors, comprising four men and one woman.
Our during 2016 business is solely in the UK and we consider there is a low risk of human rights abuses.
It is important to us, and to the continued 306,072 kWh service we receive from the Manager, that it has effective employment practices.
The Manager has a bespoke bonus payment policy and low staff turnover.
Sustainability case study: The Range, Doncaster In 2014, we acquired the asset in Doncaster let to CDS valuation, 575,000 of the uplift was attributed to income Superstores International Limited, trading as The Range.
The scheme should also increase Our Green Review identified opportunities to financially the EPC rating to B, further improving the propertys benefit the tenant and enhance the assets EPC rating of B. credentials.
These included adding renewable power generation.
We reviewed the potential for installing roof-mounted photovoltaic panelling.
This would generate income from selling energy to the tenant and supplying any unused energy to the national grid.
The review showed that we could increase annual income by 40,000 at a cost of 380,000, representing an internal rate of return of 8.17% per annum and a payback of 9.5 years.
The tenant agreed to purchase the energy, resulting in savings to them of between 250,000 and 1 million over the life of the lease, with the higher savings depending on a lease re-gear.
The original roofing contractor installed the panels and we negotiated a 20-year warranty extension for the roof at the same time.
At the assets following independent 53
