Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND STAKEHOLDERS The Board is committed to fostering and The Manager also has a dedicated Investor Relations team and provides regular Investor Relations reports to the Board, which maintaining strong relationships with the includes major press coverage, analyst reports and Shareholder Companys Shareholders and stakeholders feedback.
The Companys Broker has also started to provide and recognises the importance of good a bespoke quarterly report, which has a section dedicated to communications.
In 2016 the Board has investor relations.
continued to expand the Companys communications policy with current and The Chairman and Colin Godfrey, together with Stephen Smith and Jim Prower, held a series of lunches in October and future Shareholders.
November 2016 with several Shareholders to discuss informally the Company and its business strategy in the present economic The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, alongside climate.
The lunches proved informative for the Board and the Colin Godfrey from the Manager, are the Companys principal Manager and were well received by those Shareholders who spokesmen who speak with the Companys Shareholders, were able to attend.
The feedback received was again generally the press, analysts, investors, debt finance providers and highly supportive of the Company and has been presented to other stakeholders regularly.
The Chairman and the Senior the Board.
Following the success of these informal lunches, Independent Director are available to speak to any Shareholders the Board has resolved to schedule similar lunches with to discuss any matters relating to the Company whether Shareholders in 2017. they concern the Companys corporate governance or the Companys strategy or anything else of concern.
As well as the Chairmans lunches, the Company hosted a private event for major investors during the summer.
As well as Investor relations the Board, representatives from the Manager and the Company During the year, the Manager devoted time to meeting with Secretarial team, the Companys Joint Financial Advisers and existing Shareholders and prospective new Investors in the the Companys Lawyers were also present.
This full attendance UK, the US, Canada and certain Nordic countries.
In 2016, the of the Board and its advisers enabled the investors to gain an Companys broker, Jefferies International Limited Jefferies, understanding as to the people who work with the Company together with Colin Godfrey, undertook a specific programme of on a day-to-day basis as well as being able to discuss different consultation with some of the Companys largest Shareholders, points of view on the Companys strategy in an open and in order to gauge their views on the Companys performance informal manner.
This event was well received by investors who to date and ascertain what, if any, concerns they had in relation found the relaxed environment to be conducive to full and open to the Companys future.
Formal reports were prepared and discussions with a range of people who were knowledgeable delivered to the Board on the feedback received from these about the Company.
The feedback, which was very supportive overall, has been taken into account by the Board in determining the Site visits Companys strategy.
The Broker has held frequent ad hoc The Manager has undertaken several Big Box site visits for meetings with investors over the course of the year on behalf of existing Shareholders and prospective investors during the the Company and reported the same to the Board.
We will continue the initiative in 2017 as we believe that 88 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 it provides Shareholders and other stakeholders with a better insight into the nature of the assets we invest in.
AGM Shareholders are encouraged to attend and vote at the Companys general meetings so they can discuss governance and strategy with the Board and the Manager.
This enables the Board to better understand Shareholders views.
The full Board usually attends the Annual General Meeting and the Directors make themselves available to answer Shareholder questions at all the general meetings of the Company.
The Chairman makes himself available, as necessary, outside of these meetings to speak to Shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director is also available for Shareholders to contact if other channels of communication with the Company are not available or are inappropriate.
Members of the Board also regularly attend the bi-annual financial results presentations to analysts.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director can be contacted by emailing the Company Secretary, on cosec@tritaxbigbox.
co. uk, who will pass the communication directly to the relevant person, or by post.
Public communications The Company ensures that any price sensitive information is released to all Shareholders at the same time and in accordance with regulatory requirements.
All Company announcements which are released through the London Stock Exchange are also made available on the Companys website.
The website also holds the quarterly fact sheets, share price information, investor presentations and the Annual and Interim Reports which are available for download.
The Companys Annual Report and Interim Report are also dispatched to Shareholders by mail.
